## WG Build and Packaging

### General
#### Roadmap until end of July
- `mdspan` as external dependency. **Lead: Thomas**. Estimate 3*12h
  - HPSF CI (NVIDIA Grace/Grace, host-only) with external mdspan added
  - We probably also want a GPU build for that
  - Action: Thomas to open an issue in `kokkos/kokkos` with rationale, current state, and a proposed step-by-step plan.
- **done** Checklist for `Godbolt` integration **Lead: Thomas**. Estimate 3*5h
- Investigate if a `Conan` recipe would automate future `Godbolt` integration. **Lead: Jakob**. Estimate 3*5h
- Host only `Conan` package for Kokkos. **Lead Nic**. Estimate 3*5h
- Redesign TPLs in Kokkos Kernels **Lead Luc**. Estimate 3*20h
  - Damien requested feedback from Kokkos FFT as part of that redesign direction.
- Enable the collection of benchmark data across open platforms (e.g. Frontier and Auorora). **Lead Luc**. Estimate 3*5h
- Guidelines for downstream spack package. **Lead Jakob**. Estimate 3*10h
- Streamline the release process with a central checklist. **Lead Jakob**. Estimate 3*5h
- **done, merged, checklists adapted** Remove hard-coded version number in Kokkos-Kernels spack recipe. **Lead Jakob** Estimate 3*5h
- Allow the Smoketest to be used with an installed Kokkos to allow install testing. **Lead Jakob** Estimate 3*10h
- **STRETCH GOAL** How BLAS/Lapack interact with general libraries. **Lead Luc**
- Kokkos ecosystem without nvcc_wrapper, WIP at CExA, first step work estimate. **Lead Cédric and Thomas**

#### Discussion with Leadership in week of 15-19th June
- Full notes: https://github.com/kokkos/development/blob/main/meeting_notes/leadership/notes/26_06_17_WG_BuildAndPackaging.md
- In total, the leadership thinks what we have done is the right direction
- Our focus should include the whole ecosystem
- We should check our checklists in the next release cycle
- Leadership wants us to also consider Blogposts and Tea-Times if we think we have something that is appropriate
- If we are unsure about priorities (e.g. we want to do a certain change but don't know how that fits our overall prios in Kokkos), we should just go and ask them

### Build

 - We want to move mdspan to an external dependency in spack (lead Thomas). But for that we need some changes to the core build system, a versioning, and CI support.
 The consensus in the core-dev meeting was to do this - Damien stressed, that we should be ready to give the reasoning for this in the dev meeting.

### Packaging

 - @nmm0 Any response from the Conan developers yet?
 - @Jan Anything we can help with

#### Spack
 - [open Kokkos* PRs](https://github.com/spack/spack-packages/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Aopen+kokkos)

 - PR [#4411](https://github.com/spack/spack-packages/pull/4411): HIP language support in the package. **Related to `CudaPackage` for `KokkosKernels`**
 - PR [#4407](https://github.com/spack/spack-packages/pull/4407): request to route cxxflags compiler flags to be passed with CMAKE_CXX_FLAGS. **Assignee: Richard**
 - PR [#3356](https://github.com/spack/spack-packages/pull/3356): how do we handle cuda 90, 90a since 90a was removed in cuda and does not exist in kokkos spack. **Assignee: Cédric**
 - Richard: At the moment we can change the logic to fail earlier and make the error more expliciy at concretization time. There is a PR incoming [#4416](https://github.com/spack/spack-packages/pull/4416) to help with this issue.

### Documentation

## Notes

**Note taker: Luc**

**Attendees: Daniel, Jakob, Luc, Richard, Nic**

Jakob summary of leadership team feedback:
 - The wg is doing well overall!
 - Should have a vision on the whole ecosystem
 - Need to verify that our checklist works when we release to "certify them"
 - Blogpost for godbolt with CUDA, or any other would be great

Jakob overview of the roadmap:
 - Thomas will look at making mdspan an external dipendency
 - we have a checklist for release
 - Kokkos with CUDA on godbolt works with 13.X but does not work correctly with 12.Y because of path issue...
 - Conan for Godbolt seems to be mostly host only which explains why CUDA support is not that easy with it at the moment.
 - TPLs in the ecosystem and Kokkos Kernels refactor
   - Luc talked with Yuuichi two weeks ago but mostly about API
   - Will have a meeting with Yuuichi on the topic and compare Kernels and FFT
   - Then will involve the group to look at the design we come up with to scale
   - Richard: we might want to look at FetchContent for superbuilds
   - Jakob: CMake does not recommend it but we can consider it and we should also understand how we manage "badly behaving" TPLs from a CMake/Build perspective
 - Pariksheet: trying to refactor aspects of the tutorial build and upgrade it with newer versions of the Ecosystem
 - Luc: mostly finished setting benchamrks on ALCF and OLCF except for a token that needs to be added in OLCF gitlab
 - Jakob: will need someone to work through our checklist and perform post-release actions, Luc volunters.
 - Richard did the modification in spack to keep Core and Kernels inline automaticall between releases
   - Damien would like us to look at multi-version support
   - Luc: could we allow to override the match manually but we do not check necessarily that the requested version is correct?
   - Richard: there are ways to do this but as we add more rules it gets harder to keep straight and automated at concretization
