
## WG Build and Packaging

### General

- Need to define a clearer roadmap for the wg. I will setup a github kanban to track ideas and set up their priorities.
Beginning of the list:
  + cleaning up Kokkos recipe
  + cleaning up Kokkos Kernels recipe
  + mdspan as a dependency
  + removing nvcc_wrapper in Spack?
  + `+wrapper` for hipcc?
  + Kokkos ecosystem without compiler wrapper?
  + More install methods via package managers https://github.com/kokkos/kokkos-core-wiki/pull/662
 
### Packaging

- We should check if we can rely on CUDA/HIP/CMAKE packages in Spack to create a Kokkos package. This way downstream packages do not have to repeat all the configuration options in their recipes: [Have Kokkos inherit options from upstream packages #2513](https://github.com/spack/spack-packages/issues/2513). See [specific meeting](./2026_01_19_kokkos_spack_recipe.md).
- In general we should come up with a plan how to support/integrate into any kind of package manager, including binary ones.
- What to do with the misuse of CMake components: https://github.com/kokkos/kokkos/pull/8698


#### Spack

PR:

- [Kokkos-FFT: version 1.0.0](https://github.com/spack/spack-packages/pull/3133): Merged

- [Kokkos: version 5.0.1](https://github.com/spack/spack-packages/pull/3135): Merged
    We need to update the release checklist to include Spack packaging. We also need to put together a checklist on how to update Kokkos recipes (nvcc wrapper, Kokkos Kernels strict dependency, ...)

- [Kokkos: Fix standalone test #890](https://github.com/spack/spack-packages/pull/890)
    Not a great idea to do it like this, no full support of toolchain except duplicating all the dependencies. We need to define the goal of this test: compiling or just running something built with Spack.

Issues:


### Build

- CMake and modules

## Notes

- mdspan as a dependency: not high priority but we should allow it in the future
- removing the wrappers: The idea would be to transition to the lanugages CUDA and HIP in CMake. But this will probably be problematic for quite some time, as many other libraries do not have the appropriate generator expressions in the flags they set similar to OpenMP in https://github.com/kokkos/kokkos/issues/8845. Thus it currently seems like the compiler wrappers/launchers will still be around for a while or even become integrated into CMakes way of providing a language capability at generation time.
- Quick gist of the discussion at [specific meeting](./2026_01_19_kokkos_spack_recipe.md): We do not want downstream packages to hide kokkos as dependency (and thus mimic the configuration options) but expose it. We will brush up on our documentation and provide an example. For details see the link.
- Quick gist of binary packaging discussion: We want to try to use CPack and the CI runners to provide a set of binary packages for host backends. **Assignee: Jakob**
- We need reviews for https://github.com/kokkos/kokkos/pull/8698
- All spack prs were either merged or updated to be mergable
- We have no idea what Cedric's comment in the notes about CPack not being helpful actually refers to (The comment: CC: I do not think CPack is really interesting for us).
- We want something like a checklist of what to do for new releases. We should start with spack, but will need to amend for any other package manager/binary packages **Assginee: Thomas for a draft**

### Attendees

- Nic
- Thomas
- Richard
- Christof
- Jakob

Note taker: Jakob
