## WG Build and Packaging

**Note taker:**

### General

 - Lets do a roadmap what we want to tackle in the next 3 months (until end of july)

### Build

 - We want to move mdspan to an external dependency in spack (lead Thomas). But for that we need some changes to the core build system, a versioning, and CI support.
 The consensus in the core-dev meeting was to do this
 - Moving desul into its own dependency will be way more work and will not be tackled at the moment

### Packaging

 - @nmm0 Any response from the Conan developers yet?
 - @Jan Anything we can help with

#### Spack

 - PR [#4407](https://github.com/spack/spack-packages/pull/4407): request to route cxxflags compiler flags to be passed with CMAKE_CXX_FLAGS
 - PR [#3356](https://github.com/spack/spack-packages/pull/3356): how do we handle cuda 90, 90a since 90a was removed in cuda and does not exist in kokkos spack.
 - Richard: At the moment we can change the logic to fail earlier and make the error more expliciy at concretization time. There is a PR incoming (#4416) to help with this issue.

 - What happend in the spack CI here https://github.com/spack/spack-packages/pull/4575#issuecomment-4359879198

### Documentation

- PR [/#885](https://github.com/kokkos/kokkos-core-wiki/pull/855) Daniel requested changes with respect to the historic reason why the launch compiler is there.


## Notes

### Attendees

* Nicolas
* Jakob
* Richard
* Daniel
* Luc

### Discussion

* Roadmap planning
    * Nic: what kind of things are you envisioning in a roadmap besides maintenance
        * Luc: Redesign TPLS in kokkos kernels
        * Luc: How BLAS/Lapack interact with general libraries
        * Jakob: Streamline release process
    * Luc: Main thing is leadership (and ASC) asking for project planning
* MDSpan external
    * Daniel did CI support for MDSpan
    * Nic: Talked to Christian, we can do a 5.2 MDSpan release named 5.2
    * Jakob: Desul is more work right now
* Conan
    * Nic will talk to conan people this week
* Spack
    * http://github.com/spack/spack-packages/pull/4407
        * Luc: Do we accept flags from the users?
        * Richard: There is a wrapper that adds spack user cxx flags and spack optimization flags
            * Kind of dangerous to inject the flags, but this can enable additional use cases
            * Only matters if you are inside spack build system
            * `cxxflags` is empty most of the time
            * Only difference is it becomes part of cmake build folder once done with spack
        * Jakob: But if the user switches from spack to non-spack they also lose the flags
        * Nic: so the side effect here is that `CMAKE_CXX_FLAGS` gets potentially cached in cmake
        * Richard: also in the near future there will probably be cudflags and hipflags
        * Jakob: we need to think about the whole ecosystem
        * Richard: It looks like they are doing this at the wrong level
        * Richard: isn't this also using pure clang?
        * Richard will take care of it
    * https://github.com/spack/spack-packages/issues/3356
        * Jakob: SHould we wait for Cedric on this?
    * 5.1.1 spack CI
        * THere seems to be an incompatibility but it only affects one build?
        * Richard: Created a version constraint that disallowed 5.1.1 so it felel back
        * Luc: Kernels 5.0 worked with 4.7 but needed C++20 flag
        * Nic: just to clarify, issue went away when we added the `depends_on` right?
            * Jakob: right
        * Jakob: let's figure out a way to make this automated so we dont forget in a new release
            * **Luc** will work on this
* Documentation
    * Jakob worked on a document for advanced configuration
        * https://github.com/kokkos/kokkos-core-wiki/pull/855
        * Daniel: Was introduced for easier control over host compiler
