## WG Build and Packaging

### General
#### Roadmap until end of July
- `mdspan` as external dependency. **Lead: Thomas**. Estimate 3*12h
  - HPSF CI (NVIDIA Grace/Grace, host-only) with external mdspan added
  - We probably also want a GPU build for that
  - Action: Thomas to open an issue in `kokkos/kokkos` with rationale, current state, and a proposed step-by-step plan.
- **done** Checklist for `Godbolt` integration **Lead: Thomas**. Estimate 3*5h
- Investigate if a `Conan` recipe would automate future `Godbolt` integration. **Lead: Jakob**. Estimate 3*5h
- Host only `Conan` package for Kokkos. **Lead Nic**. Estimate 3*5h
- Redesign TPLs in Kokkos Kernels **Lead Luc**. Estimate 3*20h
  - Damien requested feedback from Kokkos FFT as part of that redesign direction.
- Enable the collection of benchmark data across open platforms (e.g. Frontier and Auorora). **Lead Luc**. Estimate 3*5h
- Guidelines for downstream spack package. **Lead Jakob**. Estimate 3*10h
- **done** Streamline the release process with a central checklist. **Lead Jakob**. Estimate 3*5h
- **done, merged, checklists adapted** Remove hard-coded version number in Kokkos-Kernels spack recipe. **Lead Jakob** Estimate 3*5h
- Allow the Smoketest to be used with an installed Kokkos to allow install testing. **Lead Jakob** Estimate 3*10h
- **STRETCH GOAL** How BLAS/Lapack interact with general libraries. **Lead Luc**
- Kokkos ecosystem without nvcc_wrapper, WIP at CExA, first step work estimate. **Lead Cédric and Thomas**

### Build

 - We want to move mdspan to an external dependency in spack (lead Thomas). But for that we need some changes to the core build system, a versioning, and CI support.
 The consensus in the core-dev meeting was to do this - Damien stressed, that we should be ready to give the reasoning for this in the dev meeting.
 - [#9346](https://github.com/kokkos/kokkos/pull/9346) Do we have any help we can give here?

### Packaging

 - @nmm0 Any response from the Conan developers yet?
 - @Jan Anything we can help with

 - Kokkos-Tools now part of release

#### Spack
 - [open Kokkos* PRs](https://github.com/spack/spack-packages/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Aopen+kokkos)

 - PR [#4411](https://github.com/spack/spack-packages/pull/4411): HIP language support in the package. **Related to `CudaPackage` for `KokkosKernels`**
 - PR [#3356](https://github.com/spack/spack-packages/pull/3356): how do we handle cuda 90, 90a since 90a was removed in cuda and does not exist in kokkos spack. **Assignee: Cédric**
 - Richard: At the moment we can change the logic to fail earlier and make the error more expliciy at concretization time. There is a PR incoming [#4416](https://github.com/spack/spack-packages/pull/4416) to help with this issue.

### Documentation

## Notes
Note taker: Jakob Bludau

- Not much progress on Roadmap except:
  - Collection of benchmark data almost complete (95% according to Luc)
  - Central checklist for a release is done. Kokkos tools needs to be added to our release checklist
 
- [#9346](https://github.com/kokkos/kokkos/pull/9346) was discussed, Daniel mentioned that we have the `ensure_lock_arrays_are_on_device` functionality that the pr leverages and that would do the trick, but the usage would need to be ensured by every downstream package. That might be a problem for libs mixing Kokkos and RAJA
- Nic will get to Conan after the Kokkos release
- 4411 spack pr: **Jakob** will try to revamp his PR to modernize the use of the `kokkos_launch_compiler`. **Richard** will try to find out if there is a stable way of detecting if a compiler is a spack wrapper. If so, we can use this to disable Kokkos' compiler launcher.
