
## WG Build and Packaging

### General

- Need to define a clearer roadmap for the wg. I will setup a github kanban to track ideas and set up their priorities.
Beginning of the list:
  + cleaning up Kokkos recipe
  + cleaning up Kokkos Kernels recipe
  + mdspan as a dependency
  + `+wrapper` for hipcc?
  + Kokkos ecosystem without compiler wrapper?
  + More install methods via package managers https://github.com/kokkos/kokkos-core-wiki/pull/662
 
### Packaging

- We should check if we can rely on CUDA/HIP/CMAKE packages in Spack to create a Kokkos package. This way downstream packages do not have to repeat all the configuration options in their recipes: [Have Kokkos inherit options from upstream packages #2513](https://github.com/spack/spack-packages/issues/2513).
- In general we should come up with a plan how to support/integrate into any kind of package manager, including binary ones.
- Also, we should probably look at [CPack](https://cmake.org/cmake/help/book/mastering-cmake/chapter/Packaging%20With%20CPack.html) It might be an easy way to generate all kind of install candidates and export them to package managers via a a source file export

#### Spack

PR:

- [kokkos: cxxstd cleanup](https://github.com/spack/spack-packages/pull/2721)

- [Kokkos: Fix standalone test #890](https://github.com/spack/spack-packages/pull/890)
    Should be ok for now, perhaps not enough for all HIP or CUDA cases but OK for our Kokkos CI.

Issues:


### Build

- CMake and modules

## Notes

### Binary packaging
- Binary packages: Nic problematic due to c++ std libs. CPack creates an installer for you but does not manage any dependencies. We would need to test if our binary package is actually working with a set of configurations.
- Debian package manager tries to find out which other dependencies are needed and tries to install these.
- Fedora has something like a shared set of libs that share a set of headers and have a set of cmake configurations for the libraries. (See Eigen, gromex)
- On the Kokkos side it would need something like a general version of the KokkosCore.hpp
- There are other questions about licensing (installing against Cuda for example). Debian gets around this by asking the user. In Fedora this is more complicated.
- Conan/Spack/full stack package managers are basically abstracting all of this.
- Our CI already builds a lot of these during testing and we could export them
- Meeting between Christoph, Richard and Jakob to discuss how the simplest form of a binary package distribution using our CI and CPack could be done.

### Conan
- Nic will try to propose something until the next week

### cxx std in Spack
- merged

### Discussion on Spack recipe dependence
- Meeting invite is out, we as the WG should go and reread the discussion in the issue https://github.com/spack/spack-packages/issues/2513 and develop a Kokkos position on this

### Attendees

- Christoph
- Daniel
- Nic
- Jakob
- Richard

Note taker: Jakob Bludau
Facilitator:
