
## WG Build and Packaging

**Note taker:** 

### General
- Presentation at upcoming HPSF. Jakob will need input for the slides.
- Need to define a clearer roadmap for the wg. I will setup a github kanban to track ideas and set up their priorities.
Beginning of the list:
  + cleaning up Kokkos recipe
  + cleaning up Kokkos Kernels recipe
  + mdspan as a dependency
  + removing nvcc_wrapper in Spack?
  + `+wrapper` for hipcc?
  + Kokkos ecosystem without compiler wrapper?
  + More install methods via package managers https://github.com/kokkos/kokkos-core-wiki/pull/662
  + Do we want binary packaging yes/no? If yes, how? do we reclaim all unofficial packages? Where do we build them (oldest os versions that are currently supported ... but we would need something like a set that we want to support)
  + Homogenizing the build and packaging of the ecosystem packages
  + Regular audit on the pages of the documentation that fall within our expertise

We need a list of topics with priorities and estimates of how much time this will consume.
 
### Packaging

- In general we should come up with a plan how to support/integrate into any kind of package manager, including binary ones.
- What to do with the misuse of CMake components: https://github.com/kokkos/kokkos/pull/8698


#### Spack

PR:

- [kokkos: bring back deprecated_code variant #3154](https://github.com/spack/spack-packages/pull/3154)

- [Kokkos-FFT: version 1.0.0 #3133](https://github.com/spack/spack-packages/pull/3133) merged

- [\[kokkos\]: version 5.0.2 #3269](https://github.com/spack/spack-packages/pull/3269) merged

Issues:

- mdspan as a dependency: not high priority but we should allow it in the future

- kokkos-nvcc-wrapper removal in Spack?

Checklist proposal:

1. **Update `kokkos` package**:
   - [ ] Add a new version entry: `version("x.y.z", sha256="checksum_of_kokkos_x.y.z.tar.gz")`.
   - [ ] Ensure dependencies are up to date.
   - [ ] Ensure variants are up to date.
   - [ ] Check if variants default values are up to date.

2. **Update `kokkos-nvcc-wrapper` package**:
   - [ ] Add a new version entry: `version("x.y.z", sha256="checksum_of_kokkos_x.y.z.tar.gz")`.

3. **Update `kokkos-kernels` package**:
   - [ ] Add a new version entry: `version("x.y.z", sha256="checksum_of_kokkos_kernels_x.y.z.tar.gz")`.
   - [ ] Add the dependency to the package kokkos: `depends_on("kokkos@x.y.z", when="@x.y.z")`.
   - [ ] Ensure dependencies are up to date.
   - [ ] Ensure variants are up to date.

Maybe the checklists should live in a subdir `checklists` of our meeting notes?

### Build

## Notes

### Attendees
