# Thursday, July 2nd, 2026 Kokkos-Kernels Developer Meeting

## Travel

## Community
  
## Testing

### CI

- Grace-Hopper machine at Sandia is running picking the job, but failing randomly still debugging with our CI team.
- Kokkos_ENABLE_COMPILE_AS_CMAKE_LANGUAGE done and in production see v100 build CUDA_CMAKE_LANG
- Upgrading rocm to 7.2.1 from the current 6.2.5, still in progress.
- Also looking into add CPU build with ipcx and MKL support, I do not see one and users are still using MKL a lot.
- One more for RDC (rellocatable device code) for good measure... still only planning phase for this.

### Nightly

- [Kokkos Kernels](https://my.cdash.org/index.php?project=Kokkos+Kernels)' CDash
  - Aurora back online, the build worked for a few days before hitting issues.
    - I have a PR with a fix for gtest.h but I also noticed an issue with mirroring and that one I am not sure how to fix
    - Fixing the "update" stage of the pipeline would be nice but I have no idea how to do that?
  - Updated the testing logic on Polaris, still having issues with "Update" stage and one Benchmark bug needs to be fixed...
  - nightly - olcf: trying to properly setup ctest [#3090](https://github.com/kokkos/kokkos-kernels/pull/3090) merged

## Documentation, Communication Structures

Not too much going on here, still some items to resolve:

- Table for sparse Kernels to make it easier to navigate
- Notice that a lot of public batched kernels are not tracked... will update kokkos-kernels/scripts/check_api_updates.py to pick them up
- Need to push on the paper and get it moved out for review...

## Release

### 5.2

Target release candidate: end of June
Target release: early/mid July
- Junchao's issue with atomics function warning was not picked up in 5.1.1 but will be in 5.2
- Look at more ArmPL support in conjunction with CI work
- PR [#3060](https://github.com/kokkos/kokkos-kernels/pull/3060) merged
- Junchao: noticed some deprecation warning with a recent CUDA 13.3 build, let us have a look before the release!
- icpx 2026 unit-test failures: Collen may help reporting. Collen reported that all tests passed with icpx 2026 (including `sparse_sycl` and `blocksparse_sycl`).
- Sycl-CI failure with icpx 2025.3.1: `sparse_block_spgemm_double_int_size_t_TestDevice` and `sycl_test.sparse_bsr_gauss_seidel_rank1_double_int64_t_int_TestDevice`

```
[ RUN      ] sycl_test.sparse_block_spgemm_double_int_size_t_TestDevice
nentries_actual:1564 nentries_reference:2423
/home/runner/_work/kokkos-kernels/kokkos-kernels/kokkos-kernels/sparse/unit_test/Test_Sparse_bspgemm.hpp:203: Failure

[ RUN      ] sycl_test.sparse_bsr_gauss_seidel_rank1_double_int64_t_int_TestDevice
unknown file: Failure
Unknown C++ exception thrown in the test body.
[  FAILED  ] sycl_test.sparse_bsr_gauss_seidel_rank1_double_int64_t_int_TestDevice (1226 ms)
[ RUN      ] sycl_test.sparse_bsr_gauss_seidel_rank2_double_int64_t_int_TestDevice
unknown file: Failure
Unknown C++ exception thrown in the test body.
[  FAILED  ] sycl_test.sparse_bsr_gauss_seidel_rank2_double_int64_t_int_TestDevice (1836 ms)
```

- Sycl-sparse API has changed: warning still exists? ([#3131](https://github.com/kokkos/kokkos-kernels/pull/3131) merged)

#### To Discuss / Resolve

- refactoring TeamVectorGEMM:
  - PR [#2628](https://github.com/kokkos/kokkos-kernels/pull/2628) merged

- Reintroduce ConjTrans support for TeamGemm:
  - PR [#3085](https://github.com/kokkos/kokkos-kernels/pull/3085) merged
 
- Add genuine l1 norm:
  - PR [#3150](https://github.com/kokkos/kokkos-kernels/pull/3150) --> Blas or mathematical norm computation

- refactoring TPL build system
  - Remove logic that include TPL into the kokkos:: namespace and instead introduce them in kokkoskernels::

- sycl align ptr tests
  - Not sure what we are trying to do in [Test_Common_AlignPtrTo.hpp](https://github.com/kokkos/kokkos-kernels/blob/develop/common/unit_test/Test_Common_AlignPtrTo.hpp) reviewing it and deciding if it is worth the trouble would be good. It is currently failing in a nightly build on Blake...
 

#### Current issues:

- Junchao: is Kokkos Kernels supporting 64bit integers for cuSPARSE matrix-vector product?
  - Luc: it looks like we have a code path and some infrastructure to support it, a test case from a user would be good, we would fallback to native implementation otherwise.
