## Wednesday, December 10, 2025 Kokkos Developer Meeting


## Linux Foundation Meeting Link

https://zoom.us/j/98700099329?pwd=YhQn5LG1a8GSKTq2a4bxXMfy6OA0Ka.1

## Community

- New developers mailing lists
  - Please register to get meeting invites
  - https://lists.hpsf.io/g/kokkos-core-dev
  - https://lists.hpsf.io/g/kokkos-kernels-dev
- Upcoming trainings
  - Kokkos tutorial accepted at SCA/HPCAsia 2026 (January 26-29 in Osaka, Japan)
  - Kokkos training (1 day course + 3 days hackathon) at CEA (Januray 12-16)
- HPSF Community Summit 2026: February 25-27 2026
  - A European workshop on high-performance software @ TU Braunschweig
- HPSF Conference: March 16th-20th again in Chicago
  - 2 days of KUG Thursday and Friday this time

- Notes: Jakob Bludau

- **Absences**
  - SNL closed 12/25 to 1/1 included
  - ONRL stays open except public holidays and 26th
  - CEA 24 dec to 4 jan included
  
  - Damien
    - December 19th - December 26th (vacation)
    - January 5th - 9th (travel)
  - Trévis
    - December 13th - January 4th (vacation)
  - Adrien
    - December 20th - January 4th (vacation)
  - Paul Gannay
    - December 20th - January 4th (vacation)
  - Nic
    - December 6th - January 7th (vecation)
  - Christian (Potentially, and sporadic)
    - December 1st - 24th: on jury duty
  - Nathan
    - December 22 - January 6 (vacation/travel)
  - Dong Hun
    - December 22nd - January 2nd (vacation)

## CI & Nightly Testing

  - [![gitlab](https://gitlab.spack.io/kokkos/kokkos/badges/develop/pipeline.svg?&key_text=GitLab(GH200,PVC,MI300A)&key_width=160)](https://gitlab.spack.io/kokkos/kokkos/-/pipelines?page=1&scope=all&ref=develop)
  - [![jenkins-nightly](https://cloud1.cees.ornl.gov/jenkins-ci/job/Kokkos_nightly/badge/icon?style=plastic&subject=jenkins-nightly)](https://cloud1.cees.ornl.gov/jenkins-ci/job/Kokkos_nightly/lastCompletedBuild/pipeline-overview/)
  - [![workflows/staged](https://github.com/kokkos/kokkos/actions/workflows/continuous-integration-stager.yml/badge.svg?branch=develop)](https://github.com/kokkos/kokkos/actions/workflows/continuous-integration-stager.yml?query=branch%3Adevelop)
  - [![workflows/performance-benchmark](https://github.com/kokkos/kokkos/actions/workflows/performance-benchmark.yml/badge.svg?branch=develop)](https://github.com/kokkos/kokkos/actions/workflows/performance-benchmark.yml?query=branch%3Adevelop)
  - [![kokkos-core-wiki](https://github.com/kokkos/kokkos-core-wiki/actions/workflows/deploy_docs.yml/badge.svg?branch=main)](https://github.com/kokkos/kokkos-core-wiki/actions/workflows/deploy_docs.yml?query=branch%3Amain)
  - [![Nightly CEA builds](https://github.com/kokkos/kokkos/actions/workflows/nightly-cea.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/kokkos/kokkos/actions/workflows/nightly-cea.yml)

  - CDash at https://my.cdash.org/index.php?project=Kokkos

## 4.7.2 Release
Pull requests:
  - https://github.com/kokkos/kokkos/pull/8728: bulk cherry-pick: PRs #8283 #8386 #8466 #8320 #8562 #8615
  - https://github.com/kokkos/kokkos/pull/8739: [4.7.02] Changelog
  - https://github.com/kokkos/kokkos/pull/8727: [4.7.02] cherry-pick PR #8283: Merge pull request #8283 from tretre91/desul_version_check #8727

## 5.0.1 Release
Pull requests:
  - https://github.com/kokkos/kokkos/pull/8725: [5.0.1] cherry_pick 8707: Deprecate cudaMemAdvise_v2 on CUDART > 13000
  - https://github.com/kokkos/kokkos/pull/8745: [5.0.1] Fix CI

## To Discuss / Resolve

approved pull requests: https://github.com/kokkos/kokkos/pulls?q=sort%3Aupdated-desc+is%3Apr+is%3Aopen+review%3Aapproved
  
### Priority

- MDRangePolicy performance improvement is high priority
  - Exploring Unrolling https://github.com/kokkos/kokkos/pull/8629 (Paused. To be resumed after more fundamental changes in MDRangePolicy.)
  - Refactoring of device iterate tile https://github.com/kokkos/kokkos/pull/8638
    * PR completely ready for review (currently one approval), drastically reduces the register pressures (Highest priority)
  - Iterating in MDRangePolicy without tiles for Serial backend https://github.com/kokkos/kokkos/pull/8721
    * People's thoughts are needed

- MDRangePolicy Issues
  - Fix custom reduction https://github.com/kokkos/kokkos/pull/8647
    * Demonstrate the differences between host and device reduction capabilities for these edge cases. (Stalled)
  - "Local" unrolling semantics proposal https://github.com/kokkos/kokkos/issues/8632 (Paused. To be resumed after more fundamental changes in MDRangePolicy.)

- MDRangePolicy benchmarks
  - Stream like https://github.com/kokkos/kokkos/pull/8462
      * PR updated using the macro to disable heavy benchmarks (Priority)
  - Stencil like https://github.com/kokkos/kokkos/pull/8458 (Merged)
   
- Support for ROCm 7.1
  - What do we want to do with hipAsyncMalloc: https://github.com/kokkos/kokkos/pull/8708
  
## Publications

- Possible papers we could focus on
  - JOSS Kokkos 4 paper
  - New Kokkos ecosystem paper mentioning new efforts and the transition to HPSF
    - waiting for Comm blog post, and maybe Fortran Interop
  - Maybe a paper to describe how Kokkos is evolving in response to the unified memory advent (APUs, HMM, etc.)
- Technical blog posts

## Bigger discussions
- [7319](https://github.com/kokkos/kokkos/issues/7319): Systematic API review for deprecation in preparation of Kokkos 5.0
  - [7532](https://github.com/kokkos/kokkos/issues/7532): `create_mirror*` functions
- backend-specific properties:
  - [6496](https://github.com/kokkos/kokkos/pull/6496): SYCL: Allow setting subgroup size
- type-safe scratch memory space:
  - [5879](https://github.com/kokkos/kokkos/pull/5879): Allow specifying scratch level for ScratchSpace at compile-time
- memory space design:
  - [6835](https://github.com/kokkos/kokkos/pull/6835): Remove MemorySpace::[de]allocate overloads without labels
  - [6918](https://github.com/kokkos/kokkos/issues/6918): kokkos_malloc should accept an execution space instance
- Rethink the containers: They were designed in another age and it would be good to revise/rethink them. This might be a discussion for the time of v5-v6.
- MDSpan precondition error handlilng https://github.com/kokkos/kokkos/pull/8320 (Nicolas)
 - Blog posts for releases? (Nicolas)

## Notes

### General:
- please join the mailing lists, we want to be able to keep track of people that are working on Kokkos.
- Announcement for the CEA hackathon should be on our website even if it is already full. We want to log these on our Kokkos website. Also should be announced on HPSF channels (social media etc.) **Assignee: Paul Gannay then Damien/Christian will ping Jennifer** We want a document how to do this in the future so everyone can do that.
- Braunschweig: SNL will not send anyone, ORNL will try to send Daniel. **Assignee: Daniel to keep us up to date what CEA/HPSF are doing with respect to this event**

- Please add official closing dates of the labs to the document **Assignee: ALL if not there already**

### CI:
- some fixes for 4.7.02 and 5.0.1 but still ongoing.
- HPSF Intel machines are backloged, we have notified them.
- Damien+Christan want some more reporting for which jobs are failing on the ORNL CI, **Assignee: Daniel to create reports**

### 4.7.02:
- We have a warning on intel. Daniel is pro ignoring the warning that we see.
- The omnibus pr needs to reference the cherry-picked prs in the text (not code) to create crossrefs **Assginee: Nathan**
- Changelog already created **Assignee: Nathan to review/add and coordinate if input is needed**
- Testing with Trilinos is still outstanding **Assignee: Nathan**

### 5.0.1:
- CI fix is already opened by Daniel **Assignee: Damien to look at the fixes for 5.0.1**
- Christian: We probably don't want a integration test with Trilinos since the changeset is so small.

### Discussion:
- Disable malloc async on ROCm 7: AMD seems to not want us to use it. Do we want to push back on this or keep it? Bruno: using it lead to performance improvements
  - Main question: do we want a per-version switch or a unconditional switch: Consensus -> per version switch
  - **Assingee: Bruno for getting the version from the compiler in cases where we are passed amdclang++ and it does not print rocm**
  - **Assignee: Jakob for looking at a cmake way of doing this**
- #8744 renames an option to enable "heavy" benchmark loads. **Assignee: Conrad to look if the dependent option is implemented like we do for others**
- MDRange:
  - #8638 has highest priority of MDRange prs now. **Assignee: Someone + Christian to give a review**
  - Next important prs: #8721 but is orthogonal.
  - With some benchmarks we could have a bunch of implementations by developers and we see if we can get some better understanding what is happening by this.
  - In Raja's perf suite we are slower than them in the cases that use `MDRange`
  - #8731 adds some different default tiling and could be compared with Raja's perf suite **Assignee: Christian**
- Potential HPSF talks:
  - Jakob,Daniel have already thought about it.
  - Christian: We want all ideas that people want to talk about including for KUG. Then we downselect from this list. **Assignee: Christian to put something into nucleus where we can build a collection of our potential submissions**

## Attendance
- Adrien Taberner
- Bruno Turcksin
- Carl Pearson
- Conrad Clevenger
- Damien Lebrun-Grandie
- Daniel Arndt
- DongHun Lee
- Hari Kannan
- Jakob Bludau
- Luc Berger-Vergiat
- Paul Gannay
- Prateek Chawla
- Rahul
- Tom Slanda
- Trévis Morvany
- Christian Trott
- Vivek Kale
- Nevin Liber
- DongHun Lee
- Cedric Chevalier
