# Education & Training working group meeting (2026-03-11)

## Agenda

Kick-off meeting.

- Presentation of the working group;
- Current state of the training materials;
- Discussion of the actions.

## Attendees

- Daniel Arndt
- Luc Berger-Vergiat
- Jakob Bludau
- Ansar Calloo
- Patrick Diehl
- Paul Gannay
- Rahul Gayatri
- Hariprasad Kannan
- Damien Lebrun-Grandie
- Seyong Lee
- Nevin Liber
- Trévis Morvany
- Adrien Taberner
- Christrian Trott
- Paul Zehner

## Slides and minutes

### Presentation of the working group

- Curate and develop high-quality instructional materials for the Kokkos ecosystem
    -   Build a comprehensive curriculum
    -   Maintain up-to-date tutorial slides
    -   Design hands-on exercises
-   Lower the barrier to entry for new users
-   Provide seasoned developers with the resources needed to master advanced features

#### Objectives, actually

-   Update and improve existing training materials
-   Create new content?
-   Ask people to create new content
-   Manage the PR/issues in the Kokkos tutorials repository
-   Encourage contributions to the training materials

I don't think this is in the scope

-   Do the trainings
-   Documentation
-   Kokkos advertisement

Remark from Christian: the working group should also help organize online trainings

#### Organizational details

- **Schedule**
    -   One meeting per month (when?)
    -   Next meeting TBD
    -   Leadership meeting every 4 months
- **Connect**
    - [`#kokkos-wg-education-and-training`](https://kokkosteam.slack.com/archives/C0AFHE2BQLB) (please contact the lead to get invited)
    - [`lists.hpsf.io/g/kokkos-wg-education-and-training`](https://lists.hpsf.io/g/kokkos-wg-education-and-training)

#### Already declared members

-   Ansar Calloo (CEA)
-   Patrick Diehl (LANL)
-   Rahul Gayatri (NERSC)
-   Christian Trott (SNL)
-   Paul Zehner (CEA, leader)

Round of presentation: What is your interest in training and education?

- Ansar: 2 interests:
    - Interested by new materials, modernize existing materials, and re-use the CExA materials that he as presented for the CExA Kokkos hackathon in January;
    - Improve materials to target industrial Kokkos users;
- Patrick: high demand in training in his lab, passion of teaching (C++, etc.);
- Rahul: teams in his lab want to have trainings, interested in the organization of trainings;
- Christian: initiator of the majority of the training materials, which need to have updates, to extent, to cover the rest of the ecosystem, and need new features;
- Paul: responsible of trainings at CExA, has animated several training sessions, have organized the CExA Kokkos hackathon in January, interested in training and education.

### Current state of the training materials

#### Official materials

-   Tutorials [(`kokkos/kokkos-tutorials`)](https://github.com/kokkos/kokkos-tutorials)
    -   Slides PDFs (of 2020 for the oldest)
    -   Slides LaTeX sources (initially in a private repo, merged in 2025)
    -   Exercises (some of them need a rework)
-   Video lectures [(`@ExascaleComputingProject`)](https://www.youtube.com/@ExascaleComputingProject)
    -   8 videos (2021)
-   Use Cases and Examples [(`kokkos.org/kokkos-core-wiki/tutorials-and-examples`)](https://kokkos.org/kokkos-core-wiki/tutorials-and-examples/use-cases-and-examples.html)
-   Examples
    [(`kokkos/kokkos/example`)](https://github.com/kokkos/kokkos/tree/develop/example)

The last two points border with documentation.

#### Institutions' materials (that I'm aware of)

- **CEA** (CExA project)
    -   Cheat sheet [(`cexa-project/cheat-sheet-for-kokkos`)](https://github.com/CExA-project/cheat-sheet-for-kokkos)
    -   Tutorials [(`cexa-project/cexa-kokkos-tutorials`)](https://github.com/CExA-project/cexa-kokkos-tutorials)
        -   Slides (from scratch, targeted toward beginners, some intermediate sections)
        -   Exercises
        -   Project
    -   Hackathon project [(`cexa-project/mini-minipic`)](https://github.com/CExA-project/mini-minipic)
- **LANL** (Patrick Diehl)
    -   Cheat sheet (@LANL)
    -   Tutorials (@LANL)
        -   Slides (updated, section 1-3)

Patrick confirmed that it may take up to 36 days for him to get the updated slides out of LANL.

Rahul told he also updated the slides for a [training at NERSC in 2024](https://wayback.archive-it.org/23486/20250131014032/https://www.nersc.gov/users/training/past-training-events/2024/portability-series-kokkos-apr2024/) that he gave with Bruno, Karl, Daniel and Vivek.

#### To sum up

-   Official materials that start to date back
-   Institutions' materials that are diverging

Damien asked the reason for the diverging, which was given in the next slide.

### Discussion of the actions

#### Merge the materials (high priority)

-   The "institutions' materials" exist for a good reason
    -   Difficulty to update the slides before 2025
    -   Little activity in the tutorials repository (8 PRs still waiting to be merged)
    -   Missing sections in the course (HPC introduction, GPU description)
    -   Slides targeted to a C++-advanced audience
-   Merge them to benefit from their complementary approach
-   Practically
    -   Move new institutions' materials repo into Kokkos organization?
    -   Merge institutions' slides with the Kokkos ones

Remark of Damien: the 8 PRs do not accurately represent the current situation of this repository.

Side discussion about kokkos/kokkos-tutorials#191, which is about having a global CMake: this PR is stalled because of the consequences it may have, especially on the users experience.
Damien said that by instance building all the exercises on GPU is not possible, as the first exercises can only run on CPU.
Paul answered that this global CMake would be especially needed by CI.
Damien thinks that having a central `CMakeLists.txt` file may be confusing for the user and suggest them to build the entire exercises (as any CMake project).
He does not think that the CI is a strong enough reason to make this change.
This discussion remains to be settled.
For now, a script builds all the tests.

Full materials after merge

-   Cheat sheet (new)
-   Exercises (updated, see next next slide)
-   Projects (new)
-   Slides (updated, see next slide)
-   Use cases
-   Videos

#### Slides merging

- **Current**
    1.  Introduction
    2.  Views and spaces
    3.  Multidimensional loops and data structures
    4.  Hierarchical parallelism
    5.  SIMD, streams, and tasking
    6.  Python interoperability, MPI, and PGAS
    7.  Kokkos Tools
    8.  Kokkos Kernels math library
    9.  Kokkos Fortran interop
- **CEA**
    1.  Introduction (HPC, CPU, GPU) (new)
    2.  The basics of Kokkos
    3.  First steps with Kokkos
    4.  Data container
    5.  Parallel loops
    6.  Extending loop policies
    7.  Parallel reduction
    8.  Function annotation
    9.  Atomics
    10. Algorithms API in Kokkos (new)
    11. SIMD
    12. Debugging and profiling
- **LANL**
    1.  Introduction
    2.  Views and spaces
    3.  Multidimensional loops and data structures

#### Exercises merging

- **Current**
    -   01
    -   02
    -   03
    -   04
    -   advanced reductions
    -   dualview
    -   fortran
    -   hpcbind
    -   instances
    -   kokkoskernels
    -   mdrange
    -   mpi exch
    -   mpi heat conduction
    -   mpi pack unpack
    -   multi gpu cuda
    -   parallel scan
    -   random number
    -   scatter view
    -   simd
    -   simd warp
    -   subview
    -   team policy
    -   team scratch memory
    -   team vector loop
    -   tools minimd
    -   unique token
    -   unordered map
    -   vectorshift
    -   virtualfunction
- **CEA**
    -   00 compiling kokkos
    -   01 first program
    -   02 basic view
    -   03 deep copy
    -   04 parallel loop
    -   05 parallel reduce
    -   10 profiling
    -   11 atomics (new)

Idea: Connect exercises to the course

Question of Christian: what does it mean to "connect"?
Paul answered it is about to have all exercises mentioned in the slides.
Christian agreed that it is not the case for all exercises, but most of them are related.

#### Revamp the slides (high priority)

-   Update the content
-   Have "composable" courses
    -   Target different audiences (beginner, advanced)
    -   Some sections/slides included depending on the audience (`beameraudience` package)
    -   Make it simple to compose a course
-   Make the slides easier to build (i.e. build a course or a section) with standard LaTeX packages/practices
    -   `subfiles` package
    -   `latexmk` command and `Makefile`
-   Have a Kokkos LaTeX theme (instead of the Sandia one)

Christian remarked that the current theme is not the one of Sandia, but the one of Kokkos actually.
Christian, Damien and Rahul agreed that it could be updated to look more modern (as it is more than 10 years old).

#### Course content

1.  Introduction
2.  Views and spaces
3.  Multidimensional loops and data structures
4.  Hierarchical parallelism
5.  SIMD, streams, and tasking
6.  Python interoperability, MPI, and PGAS
7.  Kokkos Tools
8.  Kokkos Kernels math library
9.  Kokkos Fortran interop

\+ Merged content

- Content to create:
    -   Kokkos FFT
    -   Kokkos Comm
    -   Kokkos Rust interop
- Content to update
    -   Hierarchical parallelism

Christian thinks that a section about Graphs should be added, and the parts about tasks should be removed.

Christian said that he could not think of a better example when creating the hierarchical parallelism section.

#### Improve reliability (medium priority)

-   Base example code in slides on actual, CI-tested C++ files, to prevent outdated syntax (`minted` package)
-   Use modular CI (run based on what file is modified)
-   Global CMake structure (stalled PR)
-   Run the tutorials tests in Kokkos CI (when?)

Damien thinks the idea of having code in slides from actual files is interesting, but it may be a lot of work given the stability of Kokkos API.
??? said that this approach is used in HPX tutorials.
Paul answered that this should be tested on one section to see how much work it represents.

Damien asked what the "tutorials tests" were about.
Paul answered it was a mistake, and that he meant tutorial exercises build.
Damien advised to run this CI weekly.

#### Improve the tutorials repository (medium priority)

-   Some work already achieved in this domain
-   Clean up the repo, do we need\...
    -   PDFs of the courses?
    -   Intro PDFs?
    -   Release briefings sources and PDFs?
    -   ECP annual meeting slides (2022)?
-   Have releases and versioning
-   Distribute PDF files through releases
-   Archive other documents on the website or a dedicated place?

Christian and Damien agreed on cleaning up the repo from the PDFs, and store the current ones either in release files (for tutorial-related files), and store the other ones elsewhere.
Christian or Damien suggested to tackle this cleanup first.

About the release briefing files ??? suggested to move them to their own repository.
Jakob said that it is becoming difficult to keep track of all the repositories.
The possibility to have a "collection of files" or "public documents" repository was discussed.
The "collection of files" would be a dump of different presentations, maybe sorted chronologically.

Earlier in the meeting, Damien said that he would like to see the automation of the generation of PDFs files when a release is published.

#### Use cases and examples (not sure about this one; low priority)

-   Move Use Cases and Examples as projects within the tutorials repo? (it may not be wise)
-   There is one use case in the repo already (median finding)

Use cases in the documentation

-   MPI Halo Exchange
-   `ScatterView` averaging elements to nodes
-   `MDRangePolicy` Use Case
-   Tagged Operators
-   Overlapping Host and Device work
-   Kokkos Tasking Use Case
-   Fortran Interop Use Case
-   Array of Structures and Structure of Arrays with Cabana
-   Moving code from requiring `Kokkos_ENABLE_CUDA_UVM` to using `SharedSpace`

Damien called this the "place to bury the corpses".
This should be sorted out.
Some of the use cases are just advertisement to projects using Kokkos (like the AoS/SoA with Cabana).

#### Videos and new formats (low priority)

- **Videos**
    -   Re-record the video lectures
    -   Create a Kokkos Youtube channel?
    -   Use the HPSF Youtube channel?
- **New formats**
    -   Jupyter Notebook
    -   Web page tutorial (à la Spack)
    -   MOOCs

Christian considered that using the HPSF channel would be better.
He added that HPSF can support the video recording and editing.

Luc pointed out that this would be too much work.
Christian answered that this may be considered, but not before 2027.
He thinks that the page tutorial approach should be investigated.

#### Wish listSum up - There's room for more!

-   Bring the different materials together in the tutorials repository
-   Update and revamp the slides
-   Create "composable" slides
-   Make the slides easier to build
-   Have a Kokkos LaTeX theme
-   Base example code on actual, CI-tested C++ files
-   Use modular CI (based on what file is modified)
-   Clean up the repo
-   Distribute PDF files through releases
-   Move Use Cases and Examples as projects within the tutorials repo
-   Re-record the video lectures
-   New formats
