# Education & Training working group meeting (2026-04-28)

## Agenda

- Discuss about the schedule
- Discuss about quick actions:
  - Make a first release with current PDF files
  - Make a second release with the latest compiled LaTeX files
  - Move Release Briefings?
- What should be done next? What is more important?
  - Merge all lecture materials?
  - Revamp the lectures structure?
  - Add new content (Graphs, etc.)?
  - Improve CI/automation?
- Discuss about the merging of the lecture files:
  - LANL version?
  - NERSC version?
  - CEA version?
- Discuss about global CMake: kokkos/kokkos-tutorials#191
 
- Wish list (from previous meeting):
  -   Clean up the repo
  -   Distribute PDF files through releases
  -   Bring the different materials together in the tutorials repository
  -   Update and revamp the slides
  -   Create "composable" slides
  -   Make the slides easier to build
  -   Have a Kokkos LaTeX theme
  -   Base example code on actual, CI-tested C++ files
  -   Use modular CI (based on what file is modified)
  -   Move Use Cases and Examples as projects within the tutorials repo
  -   Re-record the video lectures
  -   New formats

## Attendees

- Paul Zehner
- Pariksheet Nanda
- Damien Lebrung-Grandie
- Luc Berger-Vergiat
- Patrick Diehl

## Minutes (to be edited)

Damien: move the meeting notes to `development`

schedule: start weekly

Release briefing
Luc: go to document
All agree to development

Luc: Update the website

Quick actions:
Patrick can take care of making the releases
Damin: why make releases

Have github pages, accessible from the Kokkos website:
as file tracked by git?
as artifact?

What versions:
only majors?
develop versions: github pages

version0?
version: 4.7? not too important, just use hash

use tags (hashes) for now, versionize later when things are solid

focus on how to publish the dev (latest) version of the tutorials

what pace for versions (when it will be time)?
major is too slow
minor is too quick
per event?

focus on pages, see kokkos-kernels documentation


Patrick will take care of moving the release briefing (in 2 weeks)
