# Usage in Kokkos

## Github copilot subscriptions

- 300 tokens per month. 1 review 1 token

- By clicking the button, you can ask for a review

- Hooking gemini and ask for a review under Agents tab

- Please do not trigger a copilot review from random people

- Is it useful or not?

- CT: Sometimes useful. Summary better than our avergage PR description. What does this PR do. It is organized reasonably nice. Proposed changes may not always be useful. We have the right to apply change and commit if you have an account. Not random people from outside. How does it work with DCO?

- Damien: Even after proposed fix was done, it can point out something unrelated

- Nathan: Other benefits: Copilot lower the barrier for person to give a review if person is not confident

- Jan: Review option?

- CT: You can setup copilot instruction. Coding style Guidline. Ask copilot check that.

- Luc: Warn if people forget to update docs.

- CT: Ask them complain if adding a function that already exisits in docs. We can experiment. If we have a copilot review automatically for each commit, it will exahust our tokens. 60-70 PRs merged per month. OK to get 1 review per PR. Each commit is undoable.

## Coding sessions

- Agents: specific branch (starting point), compare this with that. like MDspan PR 5000 lines. I would like to split MDSpan PR into multiple smaller PRs. Copying separte works.
This worked in the acceptable level. Auto model choosing is OK. Cyber-security issue. It can read some hidden files if you run agents locally. It has an access to repos (on cloud, relatively safe) and file system (if runs locally, dangerous, ssh keys, passwords?).

- Damien: How to restrict the access from agents.

- Jan: Change suggestions are controled. Coding task why it is risky.

- CT: Deom: Tiled layout experiment. Compile time. Please add tests. It is stored as the summarized title. A well defined task goes well. If you define an unclear task, it can give a random thing.

- Jan: First show how mdspan layout looks like to AI. Because, CT did not explain how mdspan looks like, he needs to find the definition. CT can stop AI if he thinks some critical information is missing.

- Jan: Different ways to install local models. Can be smaller 4G or 12G. just chat, do not change files, returns as texts.
Trivial queries can be managed with them

- CT: He is confused with public include stuff. Tell him outside the library? The branch he produces is not publicly visible, if you click it gets visible. Before starting tests, show the code, because it takes too long. branch appears in our public repos.

- Luc: It may be OK, if we choose Kokkos::develop from fork.

- Jan: Run Agents in the containeralized way in local.

- CT: Provide a marginal solution, not best solution. The main constrain to ask is to write in C++20.

- Jacob: Copilot provides old fashion of python and CMake. Code generation PRs must be reduced. We can generate a bunch of PRs in parallel. Set Limit? In order to proceed. PRs in core may be OK becaues people know it. pykokkos may be more problematic, people may say that why you do not accept even if tests pass without good understandings.

- Nic: AI is trained on the common data available on internet. E.g. CMake post on stackoverflow 12 years ago.

- CT: AI generegated PRs must be reviewable by us. Not 2000 lines of code.
You can start from a long draft PR. Then split.

- Nic: We should not allow this a long PR. Max few hunderes lines. In general, less code is better. You want to make it a single feature.

- Luc: AI can still make mistakes as well as humans

- Jacob: People should not generate unit-tests. This is the guardrail. I generally spend 60% time on writing tests when developing something. If there are multiple-solutions, it cannot always choose the best.

- Dong Hun: How do you check?

- CT: Generating tests may be more useful though you need to guide really carefully.

- Nevin: Corner cases may be covered with them.

- Nic: Unlike humans, AI does not learn from mistakes. Can they learn best practices. Kokkos functions issue.

- Luc: If AI does not give good codes, we should just reject.

- Jacob: I am very hesitant for AI to consider tests. It helps people have better understandings. How do you review?

- CT: I learned stuffs hard. I am responsible for Kokkos core. 10 years on mdspan. Expereienced many failures. We should have a guidline, tests extents at compile time and the like. Test coverage by AI is generally insufficient. If we incrementally added tests, we end up with spagetti tests. We should have instructions. DCO passed in the demo.

- Jacob: LLM works cannot be copyrighted

- CT: you generate the code locally by AI, and commit by yourself, it may be dangerous. Doing everything on GH would be safer commited by AIs.

- Nic: If a GPL code copied, it is a real risk.

- Damien: What happens if I squash merge. AI commit can be middle of everything.

- CT: If there are multiple authors, it would be problematic.

- Luc: We say squash merge is a problem? If a single commit inserted by somebody, is it OK to squash merge? All my commits are signed off.

- Damien: Author should be responsible?

- Nic: If we concern accountability, we should not squash. Remove first sign-in.

- CT: Keep track how AI is used. For the moment, we ignore AI DCO issue. Everything is stolen in the world.

- Nevin: We should allow copilt to sign-off. We can identify where the problem comes from.

## Recap

- Review: more or less 1 AI review as a default. It is OK. It is just a suggestion. There are some useless stuff, but it is at least correct. Author may reject the AI review. Add comments why you reject it (also reviewer responsibility). What comes first? If a person asked for a review, can he ask AI to review instead of him? Definitely not. Can we automate AI review? Probably not, the subscription is still personal. Only the core people can trigger.

- Damien: Invetigate other project's AI policy

- Code generation: DCO from copilot should be included. If you locally generate a bunch of codes, you should add a commit message that it is almost generated by AI. co-authored by AI. Author judge. 1 line auto-completion is whatever.
