# Thursday, July 31rd, 2025 Kokkos-Kernels Developer Meeting

## Attendance
Luc, Colleen, Yuuichi, Hari

## Linux Foundation Meeting Link

https://zoom-lfx.platform.linuxfoundation.org/meeting/97120554343?password=4811bf7d-9296-4d3d-903a-6cbcc5492524

## Community
  
- **Scientific Meetings / Training / Hackathons**

## Nightly Testing

  - CDash at https://my.cdash.org/index.php?project=Kokkos+Kernels
  - Making some progress clearing issues in unit-tests, trying to assess if unordered queue is the culprit. Some fences are potentially missing as well.
  - Software update coming soon: Intel 2025.2, Colleen reports that it fixes some of the Kokkos Kernels failing tests. Yay!
    - The new toolchain will become default in the near future (maybe about two weeks).
    - Currently the new modules can be load as follows:
```
module unload mpich oneapi
module use /soft/compilers/oneapi/2025.2.0/modulefiles
module use /soft/compilers/oneapi/nope/modulefiles
module add oneapi/public/2025.2.0 
module add mpich/nope/develop-git.6037a7a
```

## Documentation, Communication Structures

  - Review documentation propose in PR [#2643](https://github.com/kokkos/kokkos-kernels/pull/2643) --> Probably will abandon this one in favor of PR [#2678](https://github.com/kokkos/kokkos-kernels/pull/2678)
  - Plan to move `example/wiki` to `example/docs` as it might make more sense?
  - Review documentation for pttrf/pttrs in PR [#2678](https://github.com/kokkos/kokkos-kernels/pull/2678) --> Yuuichi will split some of the explanations in batched/index.rst into batched/dense/index.rst and batched/sparse/indext.rst

## Release

- 4.7.0 release upcoming (next week)
- Is there any specific items you need/want ahead of the release?
  - rocSparse support for sparse triangular solve (pushed to 4.8.0)
  - oneMKL support for sparse triangular solve as well if possible (pushed to 4.8.0)
- There will be a 4.8.0 release
  - Prioritize fixing the gemm transpose conjugate problem related to issue [#2622](https://github.com/kokkos/kokkos-kernels/issues/2622)
- want to have batched documentation ready for 5.0.0

#### To Discuss / Resolve

- Issue [#2622](https://github.com/kokkos/kokkos-kernels/issues/2622)
  - Sub issue related to sptrsv reuse of the symbolic phase is fixed
  - Sub issue related to gemm transpose conjugate was postponned by reverting changes to release candidate

- refactoring TeamVectorGEMM:
  - PR [#2628](https://github.com/kokkos/kokkos-kernels/pull/2628)

- trsv hermitian blocked algorithm
  - PR [#2651](https://github.com/kokkos/kokkos-kernels/pull/2651), waiting for work on issue #2622 to be resolved before merging

- Yuuichi want to add some documentation for batched banded solvers and related utilities

- refactoring TPL build system
  - Remove logic that include TPL into the kokkos:: namespace and instead introduce them in kokkoskernels::
  - New logic in PR for BLAS support using CMake package, currently testing it with Apple Accelerate
 
- Junchao:
  - Kokkos does not support "big binnaries", i.e. you only compile for a single CUDA architecture. --> Luc asked and there is still no immediate plan, some technical incompatibilities in NVIDIA's toolchain are driving this issue

- Hari:
  - working on benchmarking the library on A500 GPU within the "Trust platform" a library for CFD simulations.
  - with Remi, creating a solver market that would allow you to pick solvers between different libraries.
  - having an issue with Tacho, a link error happening with CUDA backend. --> testing with 3 matrices 100k, 2M and 42M nnz, the two smallest matrix work fine. Getting out of memory error for largest matrix even with AMD re-ordering.
  - trilinos getting started tutorials are not kept up to date.
  - interested in cuDSS for Trust.
  - RCM reordering in Kokkos Kernels with GMRES, comparing AMGX with ILU, slow convergence observed with ILU.

#### Current issues:


## Notes:

 - Yuuichi: is there a Kokkos Kernels paper in preparation?
 - Luc: yes, it is almost ready and we are aiming to submit it in July.
 - Yuuichi and Hari will be on vacation for next meeting on Aug 14th.
