# Thursday, October 9th, 2025 Kokkos-Kernels Developer Meeting

## Attendance
Luc, Colleen, Yuuichi, ~~Junchao~~, Hari

Luc: November 16th-21st, SC25
Yuuichi: November 16th-21st, SC25

## Linux Foundation Meeting Link

https://zoom-lfx.platform.linuxfoundation.org/meeting/97120554343?password=4811bf7d-9296-4d3d-903a-6cbcc5492524

## Community
  
- **Scientific Meetings / Training / Hackathons**

## Nightly Testing

  - CDash at https://my.cdash.org/index.php?project=Kokkos+Kernels --> Polaris is not reporting (modules issue?), Aurora is back with runtime failures
    - Daniel: should give a try at address/memory sanitizer to help clean-up the failures on Aurora, some issues observed in Kokkos Core with the new compiler.
    - Colleen: not expecting issues to be all fixed, the runtime will fix some issues related to in-order/out-of-order queues. Kokkos Kernels + OpenMP does not compile... Update to 2025.3 compiler expected later this month but only in specific queue at first
    - Luc: in the process of switching to repo mirror in gitlab for our testing

## Documentation, Communication Structures

  - Making this meeting's notes public on kokkos.org
    - PR [#193](https://github.com/kokkos/kokkos.github.io/pull/193) is adding information on the website about this meeting ahead of getting the minutes published publicly, please review and give feedback
    - Meeting notes are now hosted at: github.com/kokkos/development/meeting_notes/kokkos_kernels_devs/notes 
  - Plan to move `example/wiki` to `example/docs` as it might make more sense?
  - Will add PR to make tables for Sparse algorithms and show TPL support on the index page
  - Will add PR to document gesv and svd
  - Need to add a PR to document sparse batched kernels
  - In general more explanations about TPL support would be nice: what type combination lead to TPL, how are we supporting analyze/compute phases, etc...
  - Yuuichi: adding iamax documentation and trsv examples

## Release

- Is there any specific items you need/want ahead of the release?
  - rocSparse support for sparse triangular solve (5.0.0), Ichi working on it
  - oneMKL support for sparse triangular solve as well (5.0.0) Luc starting
- Prioritize fixing the gemm transpose conjugate problem related to issue [#2622](https://github.com/kokkos/kokkos-kernels/issues/2622)
- want to have batched documentation ready for 5.0.0 --> Yuuichi making good progress, most new function implemented are documented, will look at some older features to add documentation.
- Will look at CUDA 13 support adding a CI test for Core and Kernels.
- Starting to upgrade CI for full c++20 support only one image needed for testing with gcc/10.5.0

#### To Discuss / Resolve

- Issue [#2622](https://github.com/kokkos/kokkos-kernels/issues/2622)
  - Sub issue related to gemm transpose conjugate will target a resolution in 5.0.0 --> Luc made some progress will have PR next week

- refactoring TeamVectorGEMM:
  - PR [#2628](https://github.com/kokkos/kokkos-kernels/pull/2628)

- trsv hermitian blocked algorithm
  - PR [#2651](https://github.com/kokkos/kokkos-kernels/pull/2651), waiting for work on issue #2622 to be resolved before merging

- refactoring TPL build system
  - Remove logic that include TPL into the kokkos:: namespace and instead introduce them in kokkoskernels::
  - New logic in PR for BLAS support using CMake package, currently testing it with Apple Accelerate
  - Support for AMD AOCL (CPU libraries) for PETSc customer (easy to do for BLAS, sparse will need more time)

- Hari:
  - working on benchmarking the library on A500 GPU within the "Trust platform" a library for CFD simulations.
  - with Remi, creating a solver market that would allow you to pick solvers between different libraries.
  - having an issue with Tacho, a link error happening with CUDA backend. --> testing with 3 matrices 100k, 2M and 42M nnz, the two smallest matrix work fine. Getting out of memory error for largest matrix even with AMD re-ordering.
  - trilinos getting started tutorials are not kept up to date.
  - interested in cuDSS for Trust.
  - RCM reordering in Kokkos Kernels with GMRES, comparing AMGX with ILU, slow convergence observed with ILU.

#### Current issues:


## Notes:

 - Yuuichi: is there a Kokkos Kernels paper in preparation?
 - Luc: yes, it is almost ready and we are aiming to submit it in August.
