# Thursday, August 28th, 2025 Kokkos-Kernels Developer Meeting

## Attendance
Luc, Colleen, Yuuichi, Junchao, Hari

Junchao: September 11th, travel to ICPP

Luc: September 25th at DOE/MEXT meeting in Chicago

## Linux Foundation Meeting Link

https://zoom-lfx.platform.linuxfoundation.org/meeting/97120554343?password=4811bf7d-9296-4d3d-903a-6cbcc5492524

## Community
  
- **Scientific Meetings / Training / Hackathons**

## Nightly Testing

  - CDash at https://my.cdash.org/index.php?project=Kokkos+Kernels --> Polaris is down and has been reporting various issues, will check when it is back up
  - Software update coming soon: Intel 2025.2, Colleen reports that it fixes some of the Kokkos Kernels failing tests. Yay!
    - The new toolchain will become default in the near future (maybe about two weeks).
    - Currently the new modules can be load as follows:
    - Luc confirms on Aurora build that tests are back to normal.
    - Additional issue detected with 2025.2.0: Kokkos Kernels fails with OpenMP and -O3, works with -O2
```
module unload mpich oneapi
module use /soft/compilers/oneapi/2025.2.0/modulefiles
module use /soft/compilers/oneapi/nope/modulefiles
module add oneapi/public/2025.2.0 
module add mpich/nope/develop-git.6037a7a
```
  - Junchao: observed a hang in PETSc with Kokkos Core/Kernels 4.7.00
    - Colleen reports that the hang is now gone
    - Luc will look into adding a github action using [this](https://hub.docker.com/r/intel/oneapi) container layer to test with intel 2025.2
  - Yuuichi: would like to join the allocation at ALCF to test Kokkos FFT kernels.

## Documentation, Communication Structures

  - Making this meeting's notes public on kokkos.org
    - PR [#193](https://github.com/kokkos/kokkos.github.io/pull/193) is adding information on the website about this meeting ahead of getting the minutes published publicly, please review and give feedback
  - Merged PR [#2678](https://github.com/kokkos/kokkos-kernels/pull/2678) adding documentation for batched algorithms
  - Adding PR [2748](https://github.com/kokkos/kokkos-kernels/pull/2748) to add docs for batched pbtrf/pbtrs
  - Adding PR [2749](https://github.com/kokkos/kokkos-kernels/pull/2749) to clean things up a bit
  - Plan to move `example/wiki` to `example/docs` as it might make more sense?
  - Will add PR to make tables for Sparse algorithms and show TPL support on the index page
  - In general more explanations about TPL support would be nice: what type combination lead to TPL, how are we supporting analyze/compute phases, etc...

## Release

- Is there any specific items you need/want ahead of the release?
  - rocSparse support for sparse triangular solve (4.7.1), Vinh working on it
  - oneMKL support for sparse triangular solve as well (4.7.1) Luc starting
- There will not be a 4.8.0 release but 4.7.1 instead
  - Prioritize fixing the gemm transpose conjugate problem related to issue [#2622](https://github.com/kokkos/kokkos-kernels/issues/2622)
- want to have batched documentation ready for 5.0.0 --> Yuuichi started the work on bathed_dense_index, should be plenty of time to make it for 4.8.0/5.0.0
- Will look at CUDA 13 support adding a CI test for Core and Kernels.
- Starting to upgrade CI for full c++20 support and new compiler/toolchain/cmake requirements

#### To Discuss / Resolve

- Issue [#2622](https://github.com/kokkos/kokkos-kernels/issues/2622)
  - Sub issue related to gemm transpose conjugate will target a resolution in 4.7.1

- refactoring TeamVectorGEMM:
  - PR [#2628](https://github.com/kokkos/kokkos-kernels/pull/2628)

- trsv hermitian blocked algorithm
  - PR [#2651](https://github.com/kokkos/kokkos-kernels/pull/2651), waiting for work on issue #2622 to be resolved before merging

- Yuuichi want to add some documentation for batched banded solvers and related utilities
  - How to list batched functions? Make BLAS and LAPACK tables separately?
  - Luc: Yes, two table is fine
  - How to manage Serial/Team/TeamVector? In a single page?
  - Luc: let us add columns in the tables to indicate support for Serial, Team and TeamVector

- refactoring TPL build system
  - Remove logic that include TPL into the kokkos:: namespace and instead introduce them in kokkoskernels::
  - New logic in PR for BLAS support using CMake package, currently testing it with Apple Accelerate
  - Support for AMD AOCL (CPU libraries) for PETSc customer (easy to do for BLAS, sparse will need more time)
 
- Junchao:
  - Kokkos does not support "big binnaries", i.e. you only compile for a single CUDA architecture. --> Luc asked and there is still no immediate plan, some technical incompatibilities in NVIDIA's toolchain are driving this issue

- Hari:
  - working on benchmarking the library on A500 GPU within the "Trust platform" a library for CFD simulations.
  - with Remi, creating a solver market that would allow you to pick solvers between different libraries.
  - having an issue with Tacho, a link error happening with CUDA backend. --> testing with 3 matrices 100k, 2M and 42M nnz, the two smallest matrix work fine. Getting out of memory error for largest matrix even with AMD re-ordering.
  - trilinos getting started tutorials are not kept up to date.
  - interested in cuDSS for Trust.
  - RCM reordering in Kokkos Kernels with GMRES, comparing AMGX with ILU, slow convergence observed with ILU.

#### Current issues:


## Notes:

 - Yuuichi: is there a Kokkos Kernels paper in preparation?
 - Luc: yes, it is almost ready and we are aiming to submit it in August.
