## Attendees

Christian, Damien, Luc, Siva

## Topics

#### Release 4.7.2 / 5.0.0

 - 4.7.2
   - Status, blockers?
   - For 4.7.2 we would like to update the version of Kokkos/mdspan that gets pulled in
   - mdspan issues outstanding but we can delay the release of 4.7.2 a bit to incorporate that and not delay 5.0.

 - 5.0.0
   - Integration with Trilinos looks good with Serial and OpenMP, will start testing CUDA builds of Trilinos with candidate for 5.0 this week
   - The plan is still to get Kokkos 5.0 in Trilinos 17

#### HPSF Conference 2026

 - Dates: March 16 - 20
 - Location: Chicago same location as last time
 - Do we want a developer meeting at Chicago around the same dates as HPSF con?
   - Christian: Fewer CEA developers are interested in coming to to conference
   - Damien: A developer meeting could motivate them further. Reach out to Nevin but did not hear anything back yet. Spack seems more interested in having the same model as last year where the developer meeting would overlap with other sessions like the Trilinos talks.
   - Christian: we could try Saturday instead of Monday? That only delays the return trip by a day...
   - Siva: not having a gap day will make it easier when requesting travel as well.
   - Damien: Alternative option is to organize the developer meeting independently from HPSF con, it would be either at ORNL or SNL.

#### Zenodo

 - Let us discuss setting it up for 5.0.0
   - Damien: this is the current recommended practice for HPC software citation, we need to have it ready in 2 weeks
   - Luc: can we do the first one by hand and automate later, that would lower the bar to get it done
   - Damien: I do not have time to do it for this release?

#### Governance / OSS

 - Public meeting notes repository: [development](https://github.com/kokkos/development)
 - Do we want to get core level in HPSF in the near/mid-term future?
   - Christian: yes we should aim for it.
   - Damien: the main work will be to increase representation at the leadership level to get less 50% from any single organization
 - OSSF scorecard silver?
   - Christian: that sounds good.
   - Damien this entails a good amount of work but do not have an estimate of how much yet.
   - Christian: let us look at what needs to be done so we can evaluate the effort required.
   - Luc: this is not something that needs to happen before 5.0 or Damien's presentations though