# Attendees

Luc, Damien, Christian, Julien

# Topics

## Release

### 5.0.2

Christian: Release ready to be shipped, Trilinos PR underway.
           Trilinos will have their own release 17 afterwards, the future cadence will be staggered with ours so they might even integrate patches primarily.

### Zenodo

Damien: Luc shared account with Damien. This should be done with Julien and Christian.
        Will do a manual third record, Damien+Luc
	Should automate this and fold in current release process.

Luc: will bring LF guys in the Zenodo account.

Christian: Should we formalize the recognization process for co-authors

Damien: yes, we need to have a look at our policy

** Todo: Christian** draft authorship policy.

## Dev Meetings

 - check the [issue](https://github.com/kokkos/development/issues/22) with list of participants, make sure accounts requests are submitted to Christy.
 - Thursday and Friday: progammatic activities, i.e. priorities and feedback/retrospective.
   - Retrospective: we need to request feedback from developers as well as offer ours.
   - Performance monitoring / improvement
 - Monday to Wednesday: hackathon and team building
   - Documentation hackathon (Core subgroup)
   - MDRange performance discussion (Yuuichi, Adrien + other locals)
   - KKernels build system + TPLs modernization
 - Training on MDSpan/modern View
   - Customization points
   - Interop/API between MDSpan and View

## WG

Damien:
 - both B&P and CI wg have been established for a while.
 - They should have some plans and reporting
 - The webpage for both groups should be maintained at regular intervals
 - Will need to meet with them on these topics and formalize process
 - Paul Z suggested a wg on training and educational material
   - Luc, Julien, Christian agree on it

Luc:
 - would like to think about developing wgs on documentation and performance

## Versioning in ecosystem

Damien:
 - Feel that Kokkos Tools is a bit under developed
 - Should have releases synchronized with Core/Kernels

Christian:
 - We have not had proper releases for tool actually...
 - Would like the same verion number

Luc:
 - We can allow same number but primarily we need build-system / release page to be clear about versioned

Christian:
 - What about MDSpan, Nic is pushing for releases
 - It can also be released at the same cadence, with the same versions?

Julien:
 - If it has external users it might need it independent.

Luc:
 - All this reminds me that we need a discussion about project and its subproject.
 - Do we have a blessed list of sub-projects?
 - If yes, who are in charge of them, where do they land in our life-cycle?

Julien:
 - Yuuichi and Kokkos-FFT is looking for guidance on this topic.

## HPSF con

Christian: Mostly good
Damien: will need to tell the teams who should give updates for KUG part.
Christian: let us iterate on slack about updates from the sub-project, etc...

## Community Summit

Julien:
 - 1hr update on Kokkos, Cedric in charge of this update
 - have enough presentation proposed (10 in Kokkos track out of 17 total)

## Sandia SQE

No time to discuss