# Release

## 5.1.0

Damien: Architectural flag detection in AMD environment needs on more fix.
Luc: Kokkos Kernels might need untile the end of the week for the release candidate.


## Zenodo

Luc:
Damien: Can we also clean-up the other old records? Luc -> Yes

# Devs Meeting

Damien: the agenda is mostly stabilized and the times have been set for the various session. Can we generate the zoom links, from 8am to 6pm so externals can get access to the session even in the afternoon?

Luc: Sure will add the links today

Damien: Can we get confirmation and the booking and address for the meeting venue?

Luc: Will double check with Christy

## Sub-projects in Kokkos

ArborX, Cabana, DDT, Kokkos FFT...

Luc: We need to define more clearly which sub-projects are official in Kokkos, what our lifecycle is and who are the actual maintainers.

Damien: Assuming that making a parallel with the HPSF lifecycle will be proposed, we should be careful as the contexts are different and the levels of support for subprojects are not the same as overall projects like Kokkos / Spack.

Luc: we need to take into account what we want to do with projects such as ArborX and Cabana?

Damien: we do not want to change name for ArborX and we are not inclined to change the organization from ArborX to Kokkos.

Julien: it is fairly transparant to move a project between two organization so it should not be a big issue.

Damien: okay, let's look at examples of moving repos between organizations?

Luc: Do we want to discuss the representation of subprojects within the leadership, they obviously get maintainers but do we grow the leadership as teams join the project.

Julien: I can draft a document for the lifecycle within the project.

Luc: can we define a process for project to join Kokkos, what are our criterias and requirements?

Damien: yes, one more question is what is the aim of the Kokkos project in general, what do we want to integrate and how do we manage subprojects, how do we manage growth, will we become a new Trilinos?

Luc: Core and Kernels went out of Trilinos but still maintain a strong partnership and our original 

Julien: Gisella is an example that integrates Core, Kernels, FFT and DDT so it can help sustain integration at release time.