Attendance: Damien, ~~Christian~~, ~~Julien~~, Luc

## WG reporting

Damien:
 - both groups are still organizing themselves but making progress.
 - Good plan developed in BNP working group no major request.
 - CI feels the situation is okay but needs more planing and proactivity.
 - Are CI tools developed to monitor the health of the builds and gather metrics?
 - Education and Training too young to have a review this year.
 - We need to start planning the next review and let us set it as 30min

Luc and Christian agree on the next report planning for mid-August, Luc will schedule.

Damien:
 - Yuuichi has been contacted by ORNL folks regarding Kokkos FFT.
 - The ORNL guys have a long term project and are interested in contributing to FFT and maybe Kernels
 - Will attend a few meetings to get them started

Luc:
 - 

## Application for HPSF Core status

Christian:
 - do we have a time scheduled to get this submited/evaluated
Damien:
 - No, will reach out to Tom Slanda
 - There is an option to do it next week though
Christian & Damien:
 - let us just push through it as the schedule later is not much better than now

Christian:
 - we need maintainers for the following efforts:
 - Core (Damien, Christian)
 - Kernels (Luc),
 - FFT (Yuuichi),
 - MDSpan (Nic, Christian),
 - Tools (Damien, Christian, Luc),
 - Tutorials (Christian, Luc),
 - stdblas (Hoemmen?, Christian, Luc),
 - resilience (Nic),
 - website, i.e. kokkos.github.io (Damien),
 - pykokkos (Milos),
 - comm (Carl, Cedric)
 - fortran-interop (Bruno)

Luc:
 - do we need to update overview page of the website with the list of maintained projects?
 - Damien: sure but not just yet, let us discuss this again in our next meeting

Damien:
 - we will need to have an issue with the appropriate information filled in

## Return on developers meeting

Luc:
 - I will move my summary of action items to an issue against governance
 - With the issue in place, the action items will be distributed amongst the leaders
