# Education & Training working group meeting (2026-06-16)

## Minutes

1. Rahul: First time joining this meeting.
1. Pariksheet: [Caught up Rahul on [working group meetings][meeting-directory]
   since March and [updating the training modules][kokkos-tutorials-issues].]
1. Rahul: I'm at NERSC [and] the person who used to handle training at NERSC is
   retiring this week.  They gave me [the] Kokkos stuff.  Next year, will have a
   new machine, the [Rubin machine][rubin-announcement].  Not sure we want [to
   repeat] trainings that we have been done.  Can watch YouTube trainings.  Not
   a big fan of training from scratch.  More targeted for users.  Depends on
   what the users want.  Don't have an idea.  Not super interested in giving a
   training that's done.
1. Christian: We want to re-record the stuff because it's getting old.
   Discussed [the] idea of being more modular than we are now.  To compose /
   choose the section you want to giving training on from the whole set to
   better target your audience.
1. Rahul: Different people have different C++ expertise.
1. Pariksheet: I'm in interested in bridging users from Python/R to C++ and
   Patrick is interested in bridging from Fortran.
1. Christian: ISO-C++ has [a] training group.  Could involve [their work] before
   ending up in Kokkos.  But my gut feeling is a lot of modern C++ [is] not
   super good to train because some pieces [are] not super compatible with
   concurrency.  Even if we introduce C++, in the C++ vastness [we] need to
   think about tools for concurrent code.  Standard C++ containers [are] almost
   impossible to use in a safe and canonical way in the face of the way we have
   concurrency.  Ranges we use on our side.  Concepts, `requires` clauses, how
   to build overload sets, etc. [are] certainly valid.  Basics of for loops,
   constructors, temporaries, references.
1. Rahul: What if we take patterns like parallel-for and parallel-reduce and
   make that useful?
1. Christian: That's an idea.  Another is [a] canonical introduction to C++ and
   modifications to put you on a path to [the] `Kokkos::parallel_for` world.  I
   think that's something to be put on the TODO list.  Would defer further down.
1. Pariksheet: Should I call this Module 0 for the notes?
1. Christian: Yeah, Module 0 might be a bright idea.
1. Christian: Will create another issue for the "long-term plan" than I can
   link to other issues.  [Creates [issue #164][issue-164]].
1. Pariksheet: Would using a GitHub project help?
1. Christian: Have used but not sure that's the right place for a long-term
   plan.
1. Christian: Introduce Module 0, C++ basics for Kokkos.  More fine-grained.
1. Pariksheet: [Read back notes from today.]
1. Christian: There was discussion on this at a previous meeting.
1. Pariksheet: [We all looked at the first working group [meeting
   2026-03-11][meeting-2026-03-11]].  There was interest in consolidating
   training materials from other institutions.
1. Christian: Also cheat sheet, website updates.  Then training for our
   sub-projects.  Okay, I created the issue[[# 164][issue-164]].  You should be
   able to edit it.  Okay, let's look for a second at the new [PR# 163][pr-163].
   We need to reply and deal with PRs because they fall without the scope of our
   working group.
1. Pariksheet: Luc went through [the remainder of [Module 1][module-1] for our]
   notes from last time
1. Christian: Lets look at [Module 2][module-2].  I share [my screen] and you
   take notes?
1. Pariksheet: Sounds good!
1. Christian: Using legacy slides for
   [`KokkosTutorial_02_ViewsAndSpaces.pdf`][module-2].
1. Christian: Thinking we can get ride of the summary.  In [the] lecture series
   you repeat what you did last week.
1. Pariksheet: Summary okay to remove because any instructor normally does that
   and doesn't have to be in a slide.  Also could break when mixing modules.
1. Christian: Slide 6: still looks like the right order to introduce stuff.
   Simple parallel-fors in [Module 1][module-1].  To go any step further [would]
   need View and allocation mechanisms.  One of [the] things I would like to get
   to as early as possible.  Want to do as early as possible because [it is]
   always a good thing for students to get experience early on if I can run [a
   working, complete example].  But Views [are a] critical ingredient of that.
   Need Views first, then Memory and Execution Space.  Memory Access Pattern [is
   the] next one.  Basic reduction already introduced in [Module 1][module-1].
   If you have [the] idea[s] of concurrency and memory access patterns, you have
   [the foundation for] the main performance critical issues.  You need to not
   screw up these.  Lets stick with this for now.
1. Christian: Slide 7: fine.
1. Christian: Slide 8-10 on motivation - not sure I'm super happy with that?
1. Pariksheet: This [example] demonstrates it was not copied to the GPU?
1. Christian: Yes, allocated on the CPU so fails when [trying to] access to GPU.
   Complication these days with HMM [Heterogeneous Memory Management] where it
   does not actually fail but is slow.  Need a comment somewhere of it not being
   true anymore.  Also one note instead of DAXPY is spelling out "vector add".
   Not sure if DAXPY is universally known.  As a second note ... well, lets
   not complicate it.  I gloss over certain details that would be confusing at
   this stage.
1. Pariksheet: Could sign post about wanting to cover something in a future
   module.
1. Christian: Need side notes for the instructor.
1. Pariksheet: [LaTeX] Beamer has a macro for `\note{...}` that we can enable
   for the instructors [for example with `\setbeameroption{show notes on second
   screen=right}`].  Things that might be worthwhile to mention even if not in
   the slides.  Can be there for people who give the tutorials.
1. Rahul: [As] you're already kind of talking about that: is there a way to
   record the questions that were asked?  In case [they are] not addressed by
   the slides to use in the lecture.
1. Pariksheet: Usually [a] helper at the workshop not giving the lecture [is] in
   a good place to capture questions not [being] addressed in some shared
   note-taking place.  Then can debrief after workshop with those notes and
   questions.
1. Christian: Slide 9: My idea was to construct `x` and `y` somehow and then we
   use them.  That was the message of this slide.
1. Rahul: Question about list of topics you were covering.  From `View` to
   `ExecutionSpace` and `MemorySpace`.  Wouldn't it be better to have those
   before `View` to understand what goes into a `View`?  `MemorySpace` and
   `ExecutionSpace` are not dependent on the View; more general concept.
1. Christian: I get that, but if you think about the canonical case of `View`
   you might not specify memory or execution space explicitly.
1. Rahul: Yes, it would take the default.  I understand your logic of first
   introducing the concept and then add[ing the] complication of what is
   happening underneath the hood.
1. Christian: That was the path I took.  You can do the other way round.  The
   reason I did this was my impression is to get as far as possible with as
   little as possible.  If you try to introduce too many things at the same
   time, they can lose track.
1. Pariksheet: In educational psychology when you introduce new concepts, people
   can hold between 5-7 at a time so you have to be careful about how much you
   introduce.
1. Christian: Slide 9: I think it does make sense to not give the full example
   of `x` and `y`.  Showing here that you access them.  Views as pointers here
   for capture by value `[=]`.
1. Christian: Slide 10: Eventually 'Access elements "(...)"' brings the core
   idea across.  May have another interface.
1. Christian: Slide 11: Life cycle [is] useful because can get wrong answers and
   [serves as] a teachable moment.  I like it because it teaches people more.
1. Pariksheet: I know shallow and deep copy from Python but not sure how much
   we can assume?  I see shallow copy on the slides of copying pointers and
   deep copy of making a copy of all the memory being referenced.
1. Christian: I see what you're saying.  [Looks at preceding slides].  We could
   use one more word here.  Like "reference semantics".  Instead of item 2, we
   could say "Views have reference semantics and assigning them does not copy
   the data they point to".
1. Pariksheet: Yes!  You're describing what the shallow copy does.
1. Rahul: Can we have an illustration showing the copy?
1. Christian: Concerned about space.  Okay, potentially, we can add an
   illustration here.  How about we introduce a new slide which walks through
   the example with a graphic.  I do that verbally but could go through
   step-by-step.
1. Rahul: Yeah, that's good.
1. Christian: So we'll introduce a new slide that is a walkthrough of that
   example.  Yes, we need to find balance because we can't introduce too many
   things without cutting something.  Already takes 90 minutes per module, but
   we should do it with specific examples where we can drive the concepts home.
   This is a key concept; if they don't understand this they're not going to
   write good code.
1. Rahul: Can we have a little bit about `std::shared_ptr`?
1. Pariksheet: I think that should be contained in Module 0.
1. Christian: Mentioning `std::shared_ptr` is to help people make the
   connection.
1. Christian: Slide 12: One of the most important ones.  Remove `assert(a.data()
   != nullptr);` because people shouldn't generally be doing that.  Or could
   move [it] to the end and say don't do this because it's part of
   interoperability and will be covered later in unmanaged views and
   interoperability with raw arrays.  Must add a link to the documentation of
   Kokkos Views.  Speaking of which, let me see [which of] our [member]
   functions we should mention here.  Where is View?  There are all kinds of
   typedefs.  Many constructors.  We should add a "Rank" function.
   `static_assert(a.rank() == 2)`.
1. Pariksheet: Maybe should cover `static_assert()` in Module 0.
1. Christian: Maybe also have the `is_allocated()` function.  You use that to
   see if you can access memory.  So let's add `rank()` and `is_allocated()`
   here.
1. Rahul: How is that different from `a.data() != nullptr`.
1. Christian: `is_allocated()` generally does that.  But in the future not
   every View may have a valid `a.data()` function because we may not be able
   to get you a pointer.  Think of Views backed by a memory handle like
   remote spaces view of NVSHMEM because of disaggregated memory.  So we might
   be in those situations.  We can return the underlying data handle, but may
   not be a pointer; may be something else.  That's why `is_allocated()` is
   potentially different.
1. Christian: A couple of functions like `data_handle` and `mapping` that
   returns layout.  And accessor function.  But we haven't introduced these
   concepts yet and they are much less used than this.  So I think that's fine.
1. Rahul: Wondering how I can help?
1. Pariksheet: For now, would be helpful if you could review the meeting notes
   and the upcoming "Update Module 2 (...)" issue.  I'm hesitant to assign
   anyone these issues.  Make sure that I've captured what you were wanting to
   say.
1. Christian: Can work in smallish pull-requests and check mark the issues to
   say what we did.

## Tasks for next meeting

1. [ ] Create an issue "Updating Module 2 [...]" with the slide-specific changes
   discussed above.
1. [ ] Link to issues "Updating Module 1 [...]" and "Updating Module 2 [...]"
   issues from the long term plan [issue# 164][issue-164].

## Next meeting

2025-06-23.

## Attendees

- Christian Trott
- Rahul Gayatri
- Pariksheet Nanda

<!-- References -->

[meeting-directory]: <https://github.com/kokkos/development/tree/main/meeting_notes/wg-education-training/minutes>
[kokkos-tutorials-issues]: <https://github.com/kokkos/kokkos-tutorials/issues>
[rubin-announcement]: <https://www.nersc.gov/news-and-events/news/doe-announces-new-supercomputer-powered-by-dell-and-nvidia-to-speed-scientific-discovery>
[issue-164]: <https://github.com/kokkos/kokkos-tutorials/issues/164>
[meeting-2026-03-11]: <https://github.com/kokkos/development/blob/main/meeting_notes/wg-education-training/minutes/2026_03_11.md>
[pr-163]: <https://github.com/kokkos/kokkos-tutorials/pull/163>
[module-2]: <https://github.com/kokkos/kokkos-tutorials/blob/legacy/LectureSeries/KokkosTutorial_02_ViewsAndSpaces.pdf>
[module-1]: <https://github.com/kokkos/kokkos-tutorials/blob/legacy/LectureSeries/KokkosTutorial_01_Introduction.pdf>
