# Education & Training working group meeting (2026-06-09)

## Minutes

1. Pariksheet: [Joined 8 minutes late from training a summer student.]
1. Luc: [Summarized discussion so far of catching Patrick up on recent issues
   and work.]
1. Luc: No deadline for [issue #162][issue-162], but do want to start working on
   this.
1. Patrick: We can look at pull requests.
1. Patrick: [PR# 161][pr-161]: Put all Kokkos slides into one big set.  900
   pages!
1. Luc: [Discussed the diff of the [PR # 161][pr-161].]  No way to have
   `\sandid` passed to the other file?
1. Patrick: Not really.
1. Luc: Then in general that's fine.  Could have a LaTeX macro or function.
1. Patrick: Should be okay because we're not changing the disclaimer too often.
   Also had an Oak Ridge disclaimer.
1. Luc: Oak Ridge does put these once in a while.  They can let us know.
1. Patrick: Once you have the disclaimer at LANL you cannot remove it anymore.
1. Luc: Yes, trying to have a way of limiting copy-pasting.  At Sandia we have
   to change the number if we have new content.
1. Patrick: For us, the number is the same.  You have suffixes in the end.
1. Luc: PR is presentation, TR is training.  As long as you get a number no one
   is complaining.
1. Luc: When looking at more PRs, we want to prioritize content updates.
1. Patrick: Issue is my Kokkos funding was reduced to even less, only have 15%.
   I try to work a little bit but cannot do as much as I would like to do.
1. Luc: Could edit [issue# 162][issue-162] with who is working on what.  [We
   could also] go through [the] remainder of slides.
1. Pariksheet: [We] did one pass through [at our previous [2026-05-26
   meeting][meeting-2026-05-26]], then we did a second pass.
1. Luc: [Opened [`KokkosTutorial_01_Introduction.pdf`][module-1] to continue
   reviewing.]
1. Patrick: We stopped at lambdas.  Would be helpful to have a slide mentioning
   what C++ features Kokkos uses; have [had] people raise their hand if they
   know [the C++ feature] otherwise [I have to] explain on the whiteboard.
   Having slides to explain the concepts would be super helpful.  I ordinarily
   treach C++ to Fortran users and having a slide on templates and lambdas is
   super helpful.
1. Luc: Slide 45: Do we want to update these slides?  [Nvidia] Pascal, [Intel]
   Haswell, and [Intel Phi] Knights Landing (KNL) [are] not relevant these days.
1. Patrick: I would remove KNL and re-run on an Nvidia GPU.  No one is using KNL
   anymore.
1. Luc: HIP example as well.
1. Pariksheet: Do we have a benchmark suite where we generate these graphs?
1. Luc: Good question.  We should document somewhere how to generate these
   figures for reproducibility.  Maybe a comment in the source code for the
   slides.  Would be very helpful.  Otherwise it looks reasonable.
1. Luc: Slide 47 inner product is a big example that comes up.  I'm being
   careful here because Kokkos had the unfortunate habit of naming things.  `A`
   should be `M`x`N` not `N`x`M`.  They chose the confusing way in my opinion.
   Looks like a mathematical object.  Kokkos View for `A` is opposite to
   everyone else.  `M` should be number of columns and `N` the number of rows.
   Should be like every math textbook.  Problem is then needing to be consistent
   across slides and code examples.
1. Luc: Slide 49: In Christian's mind this seems [to be] the lambda to functor
   explanation.  But may not fulfil the requirement as much as expected.
1. Luc: Slide 50: `cmake` [commands] stuff should work correctly [in] these
   [slides].  [Showed GitHub Actions].  Also need to update the last two lines
   in this slide when updating `M`x`N`.
1. Luc: Slide 51: Another slide we can update [is] from Haswell and KNL to AMD,
   ARM CPU, whatever.  Be consistent with the set of hardware we run on.  We use
   Google Benchmark in kokkos or kokkos-kernels.  We use CMake based exectables.
   Not sure how we collected the data.  Maybe some handmade script.  Would have
   to ask Christian who generated the [benchmark scaling] pictures.
1. Luc: Slide 53: The Nvidia wording is going off the slide.
1. Luc: Slide 56: Could ping the [Build and Packaging working
   group][build-pkg-wg] about the state of packaging.
1. Luc: Slide 56: What do we want to do about the warning "Ignore this for
   tutorial only".  For a few tutorials had AWS and could tailor a bit more
   knowing what the instances look like and automated scripts ahead of time to
   check compiler versions, etc.  We have done the tutorial at conferences where
   people bring their laptop without any HPC allocation and we ask them to
   fulfil the minimums otherwise they get stuck.  Usually the large difficulty
   is we don't have any control.  Sometimes we tried containers, but some people
   don't have podman or docker installed or brew installed.  Rabbit hole, so
   Amazon instance only requires wifi.  Yes, they won't get access to them
   again, but can get things going quick and do things.  Using Spack also needs
   a beefy computer and buildcache is not foolproof.
1. Luc: Slide 57: Could update to reflect better on spack.
1. Pariksheet: We've had a spack 1.0 release since then!
1. Pariksheet: Slide 58: Slides favoring CUDA.  Should we allow flexibility to
   tailor slides to HIP, etc.?
1. Luc: Only CUDA was the main at the time.  No SYCL, ROCm, HIP.  Kokkos was
   started a long time ago.  That's a good point we could say something else.
1. Luc: Slide 59: Could check if requiring Kokkos 4.2 is still reasonable.
   Could put X.Y.  Make a comment about the minimum supported is somewhere in
   the documentation.
1. Pariksheet: Could have the CMake blurb in the Kokkos documentation.
1. Luc: We don't have it that nice.
1. Pariksheet: How much CMake knowledge should we assume of the `CMakeLists.txt`
   files?  Just to run the `cmake` commands?
1. Luc: Could ask Christian if it makes sense to keep this stuff.  This is a
   rabbit hole.  The build system is important, but how should we go through it?
   We refer people to Slack channel but would be fair to not have these
   questions anymore.
1. Luc: Slide 60: Showing different version here [than version 4.2 in the
   previous slide 59].  Showing submodules and CMake FetchContent - showing mix
   of CMake and git.
1. Pariksheet: Could introduce at the start of this section [that] there is
   CMake file content for those who would use CMake packaging but don't need to
   know for the tutorial.
1. Pariksheet: I think building from source should be a documentation page; why
   is it on the slides?
1. Luc: For the lecture series over 2-3 months may make sense for people to try
   things.  We can ask Christian what he thinks.
1. Pariksheet: If we don't need the build from source we could spend more time
   on the C++ fundamentals.
1. Luc: All these sections are for the extended long version.  If we do the
   video lecture series of re-recording everything we could do more C++ as well.
   In your notes make sure to ask Christian as well.
1. Luc: Slide 70: Not sure if the statement "Kokkos is supported by multiple
   National Laboratories with a sizeable dedicated team."  Trying to tone down
   DOE forward approach.
1. Pariksheet: Slide 72: May want to remove the hardcoded date :)

## Tasks for next meeting

1. [x] Update [issue# 162](issue-162) "Updating Module 1 [...]" with
   the slide-specific changes discussed above.
1. [x] Reach out to someone in the [Building and Packaging working
   group][build-pkg-wg] to get eyes on updating the packaging slides 54--69.
   1. Added [a comment][issue-162-build-pkg-wg] on [issue #162](issue-162) to WG
      leads @cedricchevalier19 and @JBludau.
1. [ ] Start making progress on [issue# 162][issue-162] "Updating
   Module 1 [...]".
1. [ ] Start making progress on [issue# 62][issue-62] "Generate PDF of
   the most recent release briefing [...]".

## Next meeting

2025-06-16.

## Attendees

- Luc Berger-Vergiat
- Patrick Diehl
- Pariksheet Nanda

<!-- References -->

[issue-162]: <https://github.com/kokkos/kokkos-tutorials/issues/162>
[pr-161]: <https://github.com/kokkos/kokkos-tutorials/pull/161>
[meeting-2026-05-26]: <https://github.com/kokkos/development/blob/main/meeting_notes/wg-education-training/minutes/2026_05_26.md>
[issue-62]: <https://github.com/kokkos/development/issues/62>
[module-1]: <https://github.com/kokkos/kokkos-tutorials/blob/legacy/LectureSeries/KokkosTutorial_01_Introduction.pdf>
[build-pkg-wg]: <https://kokkos.org/wgs/build-and-packaging/>
[issue-162-build-pkg-wg]: <https://github.com/kokkos/kokkos-tutorials/issues/162#issuecomment-4664669142>
