# Education & Training working group meeting (2026-06-23)

## Minutes

1. Rahul: [Talked with Christian's about his efforts writing unit tests and
   limitations of Claude AI.]  What about incremental tests?
1. Christian: Spincloud, German company behind neurmorphic architecture
   Spinnica.  They use incremental tests and spin up a backend for their stuff.
   We use incremental tests for silicon backend.  Not used that often.  If you
   work on a new backend we guide people with the right steps and people who
   have never written a backend found it very helpful.  We should keep that.
1. Rahul: That was my next question about what was missing.
1. Christian: If you can enable enough of our normal testing it makes progress
   easier.  But until you get there a lot of tests breaks because of
   interdependence on other features.  Does what we need to do for now.  I'm
   happy with it.  We can talk about CUDA backend if you stay on after the
   meeting.
1. Christian: Will finish [Module 2][module-2], then use the meeting time to
   edit the slides before we go to the next Module.
1. Rahul: Sounds good.
1. Christian: Slide 13.  CMake build instructions look good.  May want to add
   information on "GPU with SharedSpace" [instead of "GPU with UVM"?].  Let me
   check.  Exercise 2 only introduces Views and doesn't do anything else; we
   don't really talk about memory spaces yet.  But we mention it here.  For
   people who are eager and further along, they can plug in the SharedSpace
   memory space explicitly and would be able to run the example on GPU.
1. Pariksheet: Remove to instructor notes or remove altogether?
1. Christian: Let me share my other screen.  Someone changed the Exercise so
   that it already says `Kokkos::SharedSpace`.  Don't like `View` instead of no
   argument.  At the bottom of the slide, add a blob for the eager beaver to
   add `Kokkos::SharedSpace` and compile with `-D Kokkos_ENABLE_CUDA=ON` or
   `Kokkos_ENABLE_${GPU}`.  If already struggling, don't overwhelm, but if easy
   and obvious to you then you can get this working on GPUs.  Sound good to
   you?  [Looks like `02_Exercise.host` and `02_Exercise.cuda` no longer work
   with the `CMakeLists.txt` like they did with the older `Makefile`.]
1. Pariksheet: I hesitate to fracture class into 2 groups.
1. Christian: I find time to do an exercise varies by a magnitude: 3 minutes to
   25 minutes.  A lot of things have that.  When you're struggling.  I find it
   useful to keep people busy.  Only in hands-on it diverges.  Put in the notes
   as maybe.  I think we should remove shared space otherwise.  We have not
   talked about memory spaces at all yet.
1. Christian: Slide 14: Change slide title to say we are going to cover it.
1. Rahul: Change "Memory traits; covered later."  Add a couple of words?  We
   define the other concepts that are covered later.
1. Christian: "Memory traits for controlling data access operation"?
1. Rahul: Yeah, but doesn't cover everything.
1. Pariksheet: [Looked at [Kokkos::MemoryTraits][doc-memorytraits] in the
   documentation].
1. Rahul: If you already know how your view will be accessed e.g. with a stride
   or random that is different than Kokkos default, you can pass that in.
1. Pariksheet: Maybe "Memory traits to tune how a view's data is accessed;
   covered later".
1. Rahul: Also covers CPU memory and GPU memory spaces.
1. Pariksheet: For [module 0][issue-167], wondering about DOE training funding.
1. Rahul: External affiliation for salary support.
1. Christian: External grants via PSSAP, but typically high profile: only 3
   centers.  Larger collaboration with universities to help with student
   pipelines.  Another thing when we were better funded before AI, directly out
   of Kokkos funding had funded university collaborators on training.  Could
   see if possible.  Need to see budget this year.
1. Pariksheet: Concepts of supplementary grants that I could apply with you?
1. Christian: Not quite.  Would have to subcontract.  If directly related to
   something as part of mandate.  Could apply here of refreshing training
   material.  Gut feeling is need to do soon for this fiscal year.  Don't do
   carry over.  Would need to see how that works.  Will see this week.  More
   difficult than it used to be.  Willing to write letters of collaboration and
   support: writing [letters] by myself, not with AI!
1. Christian: "Memory traits to control access modalities; covered later".
1. Christian: Slide 15: Looks fine.
1. Pariksheet: Slide 16: Show NVSHMEM in this diagram?
1. Christian: No, that's multinode, would be in Module 4 or 5.  For instructor
   notes in some ways.  Have complex architecture with all kinds of memory
   things.  Execution space, lots to get through.  No 1:1 correlation between
   memory space and execution space.  Execution space is not just the
   representation of physical resources.  Also representation of mechanism to
   leverage resources.  Serial and OpenMP run on the same cores, but two
   different mechanisms.  We already say on the slide a "set of cores" and an
   execution mechanism.
1. Rahul: Make picture simpler?  Do you want "NUMA Domain" there?  User does
   not need to know the "NUMA Domain" right now.
1. Christian: Will need to know in the future.  Here, NUMA Domain more about
   memory than cores.  Probably fine to remove, but use the same picture here
   and later with different colors.  We can remove "NUMA Domain", that's fine.
1. Christian: Slide 17: This is about distinguishing things inside a
   `parallel_for` and outside.  Get a mental model of where code is actually
   run. I don't like "also known as default host execution space" because the
   red stuff is not being executed there.  Serial instance may own it's own
   `std::thread` which is not the same as the host process thread that would be
   legal.  OpenMP thread pool may not include the host process thread.  So I
   don't like this sentence.  Would want to get rid of that and talk about host
   execution space later.
1. Rahul: Already say it's in the host process.
1. Christian: That's good enough.
1. Christian: "default execution space" is interesting, because we also have
   the type DefaultExecutionSpace.  It's in the summary, so we should introduce
   it earlier.
1. Pariksheet: Not used in code though.
1. Rahul: Put [`DefaultExecutionSpace`] in [the] `RangePolicy` code on the next
   slide?
1. Christian: But meant to show where you would control it.
1. Rahul: Show the default if you don't specify it.
1. Christian: If we make "n" instead of "numberofIntervals" we could have
   enough space.
1. Rahul: I like the default example `RangePolicy<>` that runs on
   DefaultExecutionSpace.
1. Christian: Could say `RangePolicy<>(0,n)` runs on `DefaultExecutionSpace`.
   Let's try that.
1. Christian: Slide 19: This is the annotation stuff we need.
1. Pariksheet: Shows underneath the covers what it's doing.  It's nice, I like
   this.
1. Christian: For people who know.  It's not some stupid magic.
1. Christian: Do we give an example?  Not yet.
1. Christian: Slide 20: Then memory space motivation.  I still feel stupid for
   this example.  But lots of people who don't think about accessibility of
   memory being constrained where you execute.  So this initializes on host and
   access in `parallel_for`.  Think about where the data lives.  Could imagine
   a world where manage it in a magic way but we don't.
1. Pariksheet: I think that's nice motivation.
1. Christian: Slide 21: [Illustration] shows memory space can be all kinds of
   stuff, not just host and device.  Encapsulates semantics of shared space
   where memory moves back and forth.  Still a different type.  Maybe in
   parenthesis (and hardware/software/movement semantics).  Another way to say
   that is it's equivalent to allocators in C++.
1. Pariksheet: Could cover allocators in [module 0][issue-167] then.
1. Christian: Need to think about how to make it clearer.
1. Christian: Slide 22, says "memory space set at compile time".  So we should
   introduce DefaultMemorySpace and DefaultHostMemorySpace.  HostSpace always
   exists; that is guaranteed.  Here we have DefaultExecutionSpace one time!
   Not sure it's correct C++; missing type name.  Otherwise happy with that.
   Make a note for reworking `DefaultMemorySpace` and
   `DefaultHostExecutionSpace`.  Instead of "portable".  Could list
   non-portable `CudaSpace`, `CudaUVMSpace`.  I don't want people to write that
   at all.  Only needed for interoperating with raw Cuda code from Kokkos.
   Stop here?
1. Pariksheet: Pick up from slide 23 next time.

## Tasks for next meeting

1. [x] Update issue "Updating Module 2 [...]" with the slide-specific changes
   discussed above (updated [issue #166][issue-166]).
1. [x] Update issue "Create Module 0 [...]" with the assumed C++ knowledge
   and HPC concepts discussed above (updated [issue #167][issue-167]).
1. [x] Continue reviewing [Module 2][module-2] legacy PDF from slide 23 onwards.
1. [ ] After finishing review of Module 2, start editing the slides of Modules
   1 and 2 before going on to Module 3; can use the meeting time for editing.

## Next meeting

2025-06-30.

## Attendees

- Christian Trott
- Rahul Gayatri
- Pariksheet Nanda

<!-- References -->

[module-2]: <https://github.com/kokkos/kokkos-tutorials/blob/legacy/LectureSeries/KokkosTutorial_02_ViewsAndSpaces.pdf>
[doc-memorytraits]: <https://kokkos.org/kokkos-core-wiki/API/core/view/memoryTraits.html>
[issue-166]: <https://github.com/kokkos/kokkos-tutorials/issues/166>
[issue-167]: <https://github.com/kokkos/kokkos-tutorials/issues/167>
