# Education & Training working group meeting (2026-06-30)

## Minutes

1. Christian: Let's talk for a second about SC.  Tutorial for Kokkos accepted.
   Don't know who all [were] on [the SC tutorial submission list of people].
1. Patrick: I was on it.  And someone from Sandia.  [I] would have to check.
1. Christian: Can be staffed by whoever.  Does Paul still want to do it or not?
1. Patrick: Still wanted to do it when I chatted last time with him.  Wanted to
   do the tutorial but not the WG meetings working on the slides.
1. Christian: What material do you want to use?
1. Luc: Double-check with Paul, but probably what we did at SC-Asia: covering
   1st, 2nd, and 3rd lecture and optional what audience wants.
1. Christian: Paul might also want to use whatever the CEA compilation of stuff
   was.
1. Patrcik: Plan was [to] update first 3 slide sets and use [those] at SC.
1. Christian: I think that's fine with me.  Just didn't know what the plan is.
   Can go on with [the] current plan.  That goes in that direction.  Last week
   wanted to finish going through [module 2][module-2] and then start doing all
   the changes even if we use this hour for that.  Pretty comprehensive on
   [module 1][module-1], half way through slide [deck of module] 2?
1. Pariksheet: Start at slide 23 [of module 2].
1. Christian: Do that then module 3.  What's in module 4.  Module 3 is
   hierarchical parallelism, right?
1. Patrick: I think so.
1. Luc: Multiple advanced reducers coming, not sure which module it is.
1. Christian: No, [module] 4 is hierarchical parallelism.  Hope we can get
   through most of this stuff by November: at least module 4, maybe module 5.
1. Patrick: For the proposal we proposed [...].
1. Christian: Paul not presenting?
1. Patrick: No just organizing because he couldn't make it to SC because of a
   conflict.  People giving [the] tutorial will get [their] flight paid but no
   honorarium - this year either money or flight paid for doing a tutorial.
1. Christian: Luc, from our side [it] is fine if CEA gets that - they are more
   money-bound than us.
1. Luc: Yeah, I was planning on coming myself for the tutorial.
1. Christian: Getting flight paid.  Anyway okay.  Let's go through the rest of
   [module 2][module-2].
1. Pariksheet: [Discussed issues with `CMakelists.txt` and multiple devices].
1. Christian: I know how to do this.  Don't worry about this.
1. Christian: Slide 23.  In my experience slide is pretty good.  Would love to
   replace `CudaSpace` with generic `GPUSpace`.  Might have something by
   November with an alias for `DefaultMemorySpace`.  Generically, the default
   memory space where you don't specify anything goes in, you have to say
   `DefaultExecutionSpace::MemorySpace`.  We have to introduce an alias for
   that.  So [this] example is [relevant] if you have a GPU.  Have people
   taught some of the slide?
1. Patrick: I have taught the slide, I think that's fine.
1. Christian: Data it points to is something people miss initially so not that
   obvious.
1. Christian: Slide 24: This slide, it always hangs me up a tiny little bit.
   The "Anatomy of a kernel launch".  Not quite.
1. Patrick: I would call it "Workflow of a kernel launch".  That's what I use
   in my LANL slides.  I think "Workflow" is good enough unless someone has a
   better term?
1. Christian: Maybe "Kernel launch: what has to happen?".
1. Pariksheet: Prerequisites for a kernel launch?
1. Christian: You create the view, hand it to a `parallel_${something}`.  Uner
   the hood your functor gets copied over.  Kernel is run and the thing gets
   released.  We are not deep copying data.  The metadata is part of that
   functor [shows previous slide].  That is going to be a member of that
   functor.  Metadata is copied to the device here!  I want to make that clear
   on this slide.  Then subsequent slides' pictures illustrate that.
1. Patrick: What about "steps of a kernel launch"?
1. Christian: Yes, "steps of a kernel launch"; that is good! Make clear that
   metadata is part of a functor, but not [the] actual underlying data.
1. Christian: Slide 26: Can capture both host and device views.  But can't
   access the data because that points still back to the host.  Can query
   metadata but cannot dereference it.
1. Patrick: Maybe write on the slide and make more explicit?
1. Christian: Can ask here for the extent and say that is still valid.  List
   host.extent(0).  Then say again "Metadata is getting copied and accessible,
   but deferenceability depends on where the data lives".
1. Patrick: Yes.
1. Christian: We have space and can put that more explicitly on the slide.
1. Christian: Slide 27: Now explaining the problem of not being able to access
   the stuff everywhere so what do we do now?  Serial loop on the host will
   fail.  Can make it host based, but then device will fail.  So we need to
   deal with that.  That's what these slides are saying.
1. Patrick: Could add comments in the code to make it more explicit when
   looking at the slide what's going on.  "spaces (3)" "Initialization on the
   host" more obvious what's happening.  Later slide "Run a compute kernel on
   the device".  Then they don't have to watch a video.
1. Christian: Right.
1. Patrick: Then another comment on "illegal access" so valid C++ code.
1. Christian: Yes, we can change that.
1. Christian: Slide 28: Then talking about 3 approaches so we use the portable
   versions of this - we already talked about making that change.
1. Christian: Slide 29: May want to change "Cuda" to "Cuda/HIP/SYCL" and
   "runtime" even to "hardware" handles data movement.  Picture used to be
   explicit of data on which side, but now different pages in different places
   and hardware / software moves back and forth as needed.  Picture still good
   for that.
1. Patrick: Add "minimal performance hit"?
1. Christian: No, performance hit can be dramatic. 500x for HBM!  Compared to
   data transfer rate you could achieve.  Even on Grace-Hopper still 90x.  Even
   if you used pinned memory could use reach 500 Gbps.
1. Patrick: Measurements from your HPSF talk?
1. Christian: Probelem is explaining the measurements we did could take 10
   minutes.
1. Patrick: Some rule of them of when to use shared memory.  This was helpful
   in your HPSF talk.
1. Luc: We could publish somewhere and point to it; for this lecture don't want
   to go into this level of detail but can click this link to get to it.
1. Christian: "For more details look here".  "General rule of thumb if you only
   initialize it once and touch once then fine".
1. Christian: Slide 30: Then comes the mirror thing which is the canonical way
   of doing things.  This is fine?
1. Christian: Slide 31: Typical pattern of what you do.  That's fine?
1. Patrick: Could replace "Some memory space" with "GPU" or "device" memory
   space?
1. Christian: No, meant to work well in a CPU system as well.  That's why we
   use `create_mirror_view` and not `create_mirror`.
1. Luc: Good luck, even more subtle on MI300A.
1. Christian: Slide 32: Only does if necessary/ could add comment on MI300A
   APU.  "On APUs like MI300A this mode will also avoid multiple allocations."
   Okay.
1. Christian: Slide 33: I want to look at this thing.  This exercise [3] is not
   through anymore?  I think it was.  That exercise might be more explicit
   about memory spaces than we canonically want these days?  No, not anymore,
   we removed that.  So we are good on that end.  Had CudaSpace, HostSpace.
   [Seems like that's no longer in the exercise C++ code.]  (Checks exercise
   4).  Exercise 3 is still fine.  Comments on that?  Okay.
1. Christian: Slide 34: That's the summary
1. Patrick: I think it's fine.
1. Christian: Now we get to layouts.
1. Christian: Slide 36: Code is getting clipped with illustration.  Try and fix
   that.
1. Christian: Slide 37.  Gets back to question of what should we do with `A` in
   terms of memory layout.  The picture was well received.  I usually explain
   "left" means left-most axis going fast.  Left-most is contiguous.  Yes, we
   have more layouts, but let's just stay with this.  One thing we could do is
   mention the C++ layouts [mapping policies of `std::mdspan`]
   `std::layout_left` and `std::layout_right`?
1. Patrick: We should.
1. Luc: Yes, it's parried layout so we need to be.
1. Christian: Nuance so okay to say `std::layout_left`.  Padding is.
1. Luc: I worry about [users] using `std::layout_{left,right}` [instead of
   Kokkos `Layout{Left,Right}`] because they have seen it here.
1. Pariksheet: Maybe "similar to" or "analogous to" to discourage them.
1. Christian: Or put a comment at bottom for advanced people.
   "Layout-left-padded dynamic extent"
1. Patrick: Yes, maybe comment on bottom is better.
1. Luc: You see where I'm coming from of following my tutorial, refactoring my
   code, and it doesn't work what the hell.
1. Christian: It does work.
1. Luc: Yes, but if you have a problem with alignment it's not great.  You
   don't pad to alignment?
1. Christian: No we don't pad by default.  In `LayoutLeft` in Kokkos you have
   to ask for padding because that causes all kinds of problems of not deep
   copying padded layouts because you don't know what the padding is, whether
   you can overwrite them.  Only difference is you can assign certain types of
   sub-views to kokkos-layout-left which you can't assign to
   `std::layout_left`.  Just Kokkos layout left and rtool may just give back
   the layout left at that point.  As long as you don't explicitly prescribe
   that, won't be a problem
1. Luc: Fine with that.  Was worried it may not work as advertised.  Let's go
   with that.
1. Christian: Slide 38: Happy to say this "50 lines" is not an exaggeration
   anymore; you can actually do that now!
1. Patrick: Any examples?
1. Christian: Not in the tutorial.
1. Patrick: I don't like saying they are extensible without showing how to do
   it.
1. Christian: Have to use standard layouts.  ISO-C++ mdspan layouts.
1. Patrick: Maybe you could write "layouts extensible via mdspan" to give a
   hint?
1. Christian: Could say as specificied in ISO-C++ and std::mdspan.
1. Patrick: Happy with that as it's a little more detailed.
1. Rahul: When talking about layouts do you mention why it's useful?
1. Christian: This is coming now in the exercise where you try out different
   layouts.
1. Christian: Slide 39: Make a note to generalize use of memory spaces.
   Primary space is layouts.  Secondary goal is using shared space, host space
   and things like that.  Want to clean that [exercise C++ code] up because
   there's a huge commented-out list of execution space and memory space so we
   need to clean that up a bit.
1. Christian: Slide 40: Shows huge performance differences.  Then we go into
   the "why".  I think that worked out pretty well of asking them to try out
   and see what happens.
1. Pariksheet: 100%
1. Rahul: Yeah, that's better.
1. Christian: Slide 40: Make a note to update [the benchmarked hardware] to
   something more modern.
1. Pariksheet: Yes, in the first module we have similar grpahs.
1. Christian: Slide 42: A couple of different ways to explain why this happens.
   This is one approach and I think it works reasonably well.  We start with
   thread accessing data.  Question in the end is how many cache lines you need
   to fetch before your thread can do [computation] on depending on what
   threads they access.  Because of threads on GPUs being synchronized, if they
   hit the same cache line it becomes more efficient.  Details are iffy.  For
   example, if every thread in the GPU hits a different cache line, but all
   lines stay in cache before you hit the second time that could in pricinple
   work as well.  But caches are too small for cache line per thread.  Another
   problem is instruction through with multiple load instructions so cannot
   have multiple instructions in flight.  In CPUs, another problem of false
   sharing: if you hit cache line [it] is fine but if everyone hits the same
   cache line because of being spread over all the threads and writing to it
   having to ping back on forth.  A lot to explain so this is the shorthand
   most pople buy and isn't necessarily wrong.
1. Christian: Slide 42: Picture of explaining that.  Thread 0 wants all access
   in cache line here.  On GPU want to collaboratively access cache because all
   one cache.
1. Patrick: Maybe could write on slide, because [there is] space to explain
   more.
1. Christian: Yeah.  Maybe "each thread or core has its own cache". "Threads
   collaborate on access to cache or share".  "Cores with separated cache"
   "Cores with shared cahe".  I don't know.  If you have an idea, let us know.
   Keep in mind having too much on a slide also distracts.
1. Patrick: Maybe instead of separate have "own" and "shared" cache.
1. Pariksheet: Yeah, I think that's helpful.
1. Christian: Okay.
1. Christian: Slide 43: Maybe replace "CudaSpace" with "GPUMemorySpaces"?
1. Christian: "Caching" if we want to expand a little bit could say "and hit
   the same cache line"?
1. Patrick: Yes.
1. Rahul: This is good.  Already a lot of information of different layouts and
   access on CPU and GPU.  Adding more might make it too heavy.
1. Christian: Slide 44: Now we come to problem of how you know if cached or
   coaleasced.  Which indices does each thread need to handle?  Contiguous or
   strided access.  We say we do this on CPUs and that on GPUs.  That gives you
   contiguous chunk on CPU and required for CUDA to give you that access.  So
   we are essentially saying that.
1. Christian: Slide 46: Okay
1. Christian: Slide 47: Driving that point again down.  What you get is access
   with back-to-back sample fully outright.  Cached, is good for CPU.  Exmaple
   here or layout-left where you don't get caching which is bad for CPU but you
   get coaleascing which is good for GPU.
1. Christian: Slide 49: Architecture dependent configuration, so good on either
   case.
1. Patrick: Replace CUDA with GPU?  Or keep CUDA here?
1. Christian: Should generally replace with GPU.  Maybe just say "GPU" instead
   of "CudaSpace".  A little annoying we don't have an impolite GPU memory
   space.
1. Christian: Slide 50: Then picture from before now with labels.
1. Christian: Slide 51: Summary that default to different places.  Again
   replace "CudaSpace" with GPU thing.
1. Christian: Slide 52: Last section is advanced reduction.  Probably fine;
   reasonably new.
1. Christian: Slide 53: So far only sum reduction.  What about other things.
   Could highlight in code block so not a code blob?  Maybe make
   KOKKOS_LABMDA(...)  gray and show the imporant pieces?
1. Patrick: Link to documentation here.  But not everywhere.  Want people to
   click on these things.  Reference to the wiki so people can click and get
   more details.
1. Christian: Not a bad idea.
1. Patrick: Could like to general places or to specific documentation.
1. Christian: Let's do that and think about that when we touch the slides.
   Places where we can drop that in.  Says all I want to say here.  Same as
   OpenMP.  Thought about assigning value to update.  Debated getting rid of
   that.  Tiny overhead to Serial backend.  Extra temporary you need.  But
   yeah.
1. Patrick: Maybe could add operation of if-statement.  Could not how operation
   and if-statement to reducer op to target the if-statement, or something like
   this.
1. Christian: If we highlighted it, we might get that for free.  Yeah, let's
   highlight that.  Already highlighted in the animation.  But not in text.
1. Pariksheet: Patrick wants the highlight to be persistent.
1. Christian: Slide 54: This is the simultaneous reduction thing.  We should
   highlight these 2 things with 3 different colors and the lines they belong
   to.  `Kokkos::Max<float>(max_value)` and the other color for "sum" on the
   same line.  Highlight the two different sums and two pieces.  One color for
   the sum and the other color for the max.  Also highlight in the conditional
   / loop above.
1. Christian: Slide 55: One more explanation for summing into Views or using
   reduction argumetns that we can use in the Views.
1. Patrick: Maybe highlight `h_sum` and `d_sum` so more clear?
1. Christian: Yes, also thinking about that.
1. Patrick: For large code blocks to make it easier to capture.
1. Christian: Almost out of time.
1. Pariksheet: 5 slides though.
1. Christian: Tries to say a few things happening.  Init-ing things and you get
   that on a per-thread basis.  More detail than is needed?  Reduce over thread
   local variables and produce on value.  And then call final.
1. Patrick: Could use colors for init, detail, and final block.
1. Christian: Yes, this detail true for GPUs not necessarily CPU.  An
   implementation detail.  Could instead say "Reduce all thread-local variables
   and produces one total result".
1. Christian: Slide 57: This is also a case with maybe TMI here?  What is a
   tagged operator.
1. Christian: But tagging is something very specific where you need a tag type
   in your operator that you need to pass to a policy so you know what to
   choose.  I think that's something we can point to documentation for more
   information.  Yeah, and "return type is functor with reducer alias to
   itself".  Oh my goodness.  Technically that is correct.  But if you're just
   listening to module 2 that would sound like gibberish.
1. Patrick: Should we provide an example of our own reducer?
1. Christian: On the next slide we don't do any of that.  "If a reducer is
   specified, use that".  If functor, use that.  If join, then operator.  If
   people follow that, then can compare to what we did before.  Strike all this
   and point to that stuff.  Put a link in to more documentation.
1. Patrick: Okay.  But in the example code need to add more comments.  Slide 58
   really hard to understand and teach.
1. Christian: I think lets strike that.  We can point to "How to write a
   reducer" in the documentation.  Maybe say: "full requriements for writing a
   custom reducer, look here."
1. Patrick: Yes, because this slide is a little bit heavier and useless.
1. Slide 58: Kokkos View example with `DefaultExecutionSpace`.  Memory spaces.
   Mirror.  Layouts.  Calls that are cached.  Example again of two different
   things with plus [that could be highlighted?].
1. Patrick: Remove dates?
1. Christian: Dates all should go.  Fine for version tags for PDFs but even
   that we could consider getting rid of.
1. Patrick: Month and year is helpful.  Just having Sept'26 sufficient.
1. Christian: Thanks guys!  See you.

## Tasks for next meeting

1. [x] Update issue "Updating Module 2 [...]" with the slide-specific changes
   discussed above (updated [issue #166][issue-166]).
1. [x] Update issue "Create Module 0 [...]" with the assumed C++ knowledge
   and HPC concepts discussed above (updated [issue #167][issue-167]).
1. [ ] Start editing the slides of Modules 1 and 2 before going on to Module 3;
   can use the meeting time for editing.
1. [ ] After editing the slides of Modules 1 and 2, work on Module 3 in
   preparation for accepted Kokkos tutorial at SC.  Try to finish Module 4 or 5
   by November.

## Next meeting

2026-07-07

## Attendees

- Christian Trott
- Patrick Diehl
- Luc Berger-Vergiat
- Rahul Gayatri
- Pariksheet Nanda

<!-- References -->
[module-2]: <https://github.com/kokkos/kokkos-tutorials/blob/legacy/LectureSeries/KokkosTutorial_02_ViewsAndSpaces.pdf>
[module-1]: <https://github.com/kokkos/kokkos-tutorials/blob/legacy/LectureSeries/KokkosTutorial_01_Introduction.pdf>
[issue-166]: <https://github.com/kokkos/kokkos-tutorials/issues/166>
[issue-167]: <https://github.com/kokkos/kokkos-tutorials/issues/167>
