# Education & Training working group meeting (2026-06-02)

## Minutes

1. Pariksheet: Lots of TODO items from last meeting and don't know if [using]
   meeting notes ["[tasks for next meeting][last-meeting-tasks]"] makes sense
   or we should create GitHub issues?  A lot [is] assigned to Patrick and [I]
   am hesitant to burden him without his approval.
1. Christian: Okay to create GitHub issue with action items for next meeting.
1. Christian: Do we know of outstanding / in-progress tutorial where we are
   supposed to be doing something?  CEA folks submitted tutorial to SC?
1. Luc: Not that I really know.
1. Christian: Out next week at [the] ISO C++ [conference].
1. Luc: I'm out the next 2 weeks as well.
1. Luc: [PR #866][pr-866] to point at the new slides, but mention [that they]
   might get out of date between lectures and slides if we update the slides.
   If I close my [PR and] don't merge it, we can point to the legacy ones, but
   [we] still want to point to the new ones somewhere for the actual slides
   instead of [legacy] ones from 2021.
1. Christian: I actually thought about it too.  There is an option to say we
   have original and updated ones on that page.  Or we could leave it as it is.
   I think we do want links to the old ones which match the recordings.
1. Luc: So you feel like we should have another page somewhere or put it on the
   same page below or up or something?
1. Christian: I don't know.  We could put it on the same page below and say
   here are updated slides to fix a small issue where [the] above ones have
   become out of date slightly.  These other [legacy] ones are okay because we
   have long backwards compatibility, but newer slides [are] better aligned
   with where we are.  In the process of refreshing those.
1. Pariksheet: Have a note with that at the top of the page and both sets of
   links?
1. Christian: Sounds like a good path forward.
1. Luc: Okay, I'll update my [PR #866][pr-866] to explain that.
1. Pariksheet: Should I add a GitHub Action to build the [release
   briefings][dev-rel-brief] in kokkos/development?
1. Luc: Release briefings slides are currently living in legacy links.
1. Christian: I'm not sure a general action for rebuilding all PDFs is useful?
   Compared to tutorials we would never rebuild old slides.  We would never
   change.  Wondering if that is the right approach.
1. Luc: I would assume while developing them we would not merge them.
1. Christian: 15 people contribute to it and there's race conditions.  Why
   would you do a feature branch if it's a public branch where people are not
   supposed to download or do anything with it?  It's no a release branch,
   right?  With kokkos-tutorials, people do download.  We're at that point of
   the continuous update cycle.  That's the difference here that in my mind
   doesn't make sense to run an action to publish a state.
1. Luc: Do we manually do [the PDF build] and upload them somewhere?
1. Christian: Do we trigger explicitly an action and upload a new slide deck?
1. Luc: Only thing you could do is manually "run this action".  But don't
   believe you can easily do [a build on an arbitrary commit].  [If] something
   failed [then] re-triggering is a different story.
1. Pariksheet: It sounds like you don't want this action to typically run.
1. Christian: Building latest release on a PR or on merge that it builds
   correctly is a different question and potentially somewhat useful.  Could
   add latest target in the Makefile.
1. Luc: Might be able to do it manually; something to play with: [Manually
   running a workflow - GitHub Docs][manual-wf].  Could say which version of
   the slides to build.  Could use the latest version all the time.
1. Christian: Exactly, that is what I was wondering.  Do we have a top-level
   `Makefile` and all [source files] in one directory?
1. Luc: [Yes][dev-rel-brief].  We also have to trigger manually kokkos-kernels
   as well [in [`.github/workflows/scorecards.yml`][kernels-manual-wf] using
   `workflow_dispatch`].  I'm happy to try to reproduce what Pariksheet did [in
   kokkos-tutorials [.github/workflows/generate-slides.yaml][generate-tutorial-slides]].
1. Pariksheet: Either way.  If you're travelling the next 2 weeks I can do it.
1. Christian: Sounds like a plan.
1. Luc: That would be a nice way to serve these releases, I think.
1. Christian: Okay.
1. Luc: We have notes from [the] [last meeting][last-meeting].
1. Pariksheet: When I create the notes for the issue should I add you as well?
1. Luc: Sure.  For the action and trigger.  For [PR #53][pr-53] for the notes I
   can merge; no one has had any complaints.
1. Christian: Call it a day?
1. Pariksheet: Next meeting in 2 weeks or 3 weeks?
1. Christian: We can keep the [weekly] meeting [schedule] and if it's short,
   it's short with a couple of people syncing up.  Let's keep meetings going.
1. Luc: Worst case [we can] update [with] what we've done.  I'll be here next
   week.

## Tasks for next meeting

1. [ ] Create a GitHub issue in the kokkos/kokkos-tutorials repository with the
   "Tasks for next meeting" from the [last meeting][last-meeting-tasks].
1. [ ] Edit [PR# 866][pr-866] to include both legacy and current slides with a
   note Christian described about the ongoing updates.
1. [ ] Create a GitHub issue in the kokkos/development repository for a GitHub
   Action or similar mechanism to build the release briefings.
1. [x] Merge notes from last week in [PR #53][pr-53] (Luc just did this).

## Next meeting

2025-06-09.

## Attendees

- Christian Trott
- Luc Berger-Vergiat
- Pariksheet Nanda

<!-- References -->
[last-meeting-tasks]: <https://github.com/kokkos/development/blob/main/meeting_notes/wg-education-training/minutes/2026_05_26.md#tasks-for-next-meeting>
[pr-866]: <https://github.com/kokkos/kokkos-core-wiki/pull/866>
[dev-rel-brief]: <https://github.com/kokkos/development/tree/d318facc3d8caff7ec1f098cab2a4dd14317323f/ReleaseBriefings>
[manual-wf]: <https://docs.github.com/en/actions/how-tos/manage-workflow-runs/manually-run-a-workflow>
[kernels-manual-wf]: <https://github.com/kokkos/kokkos-kernels/blob/69c10f467f0edc0582d5c2e6a00a6c6f92b7af88/.github/workflows/scorecards.yml#L16>
[generate-tutorial-slides]: <https://github.com/kokkos/kokkos-tutorials/blob/201a9633e978e19944436bbc59c36ea5c098ccc7/.github/workflows/generate-slides.yaml>
[last-meeting]: <https://github.com/kokkos/development/blob/main/meeting_notes/wg-education-training/minutes/2026_05_26.md>
[pr-53]: <https://github.com/kokkos/development/pull/53>
