# Education & Training working group meeting (2026-05-05)

## Minutes

1. Christian: Looks like some contention in last week's meeting.  Until we have
   a WG volunteer to lead I'll take the helm.  Would be good for university
   partners for classroom teaching.  Delivery not the greatest.  Don't know if
   we need "releases" of tutorials anytime soon.  Probably don't need releases
   with Kokkos versions; tutorials shouldn't change with Kokkos versions.
   Partly [because we have] the goal for backwards compatibility.  First two
   points is [that the] tutorials directory is currently a confusing mess; one
   of the first things I would like [is] to cleanup and organize.  Then figure
   out where to automatically rebuild PFLs(?).  And also not worthwhile on a
   per-version basis to have tagged releases or tagged PDF, but might be
   worthwhile for specific training events for trainees.  This is what matches
   the [video] recording.
1. Christian: Current <https://github.com/kokkos/kokkos-tutorials> - need to
   update license?!  The `Intro-Short/`, `Intro-Medium/`, `Intro-Full/`,
   `Intro-KokkosKernels/`, `LectureSeries/` folders should just go.  `Content/`
   contains the source files.  `Exercises/` are largely okay.  I have been
   wondering about the abandoned renaming scheme because things were presented
   out of order.
1. Luc: 01, 02, 03 we always go through them.
1. Christian: Do we want to rename them?  Or have a recommended order with
   numbers?  It helps people.  We give them actual names.
1. Luc: Does it makes sense to match [the names to] the YouTube lecture series?
1. Christian: `Content/Presentations/modularized/Makefile` has the modules.  We
   didn't do `module9`, so that is new.  Tasking we deleted from Kokkos Core in
   5.0.  Graphing is new; fits into streams or instances for half-concurrent
   kernels.  I'm okay with order up to `module4`.  Seems like natural order for
   complexity.  SIMD needs overhaul.
1. Luc: `module3` is also slight different, because not sure we did MDRange?
1. Christian: No, I think it's fairly close to what we're doing now.
1. Christian: Keep `Other/ReleaseBriefings/`?  Should be separate?
1. Luc: Development is where we have public meetings.  Patrick has a PR [to
    move them over].
1. Christian: Also move `Content/ReleaseBriefings/` source files for those.
1. Luc: Yes, we should remove those as well.
1. Christian: `Profiling/` we can also delete as well.
1. Christian: `Scripts/` is CI?  Probably fine?  Maybe not?
1. Christian: Only `Exercises/` and [`Content/`] source files for presentations
   left.
1. Luc: Yes, cleaner for people going to [read the] tutorials.
1. Christian: In the `README.md`, need to say where to find the PDFs for
   where people want PDFs from older recordings.  Could also create a
   tag for `old-state` or something.
1. Luc: I think a tag for `original-state` or something to refer back.  Damien
   was okay.  We can rename the tag anytime.
1. Christian: Okay.  Maybe we can name it `legacy-state` or something.  So
   let's do that and clean this all up.  Including removing
   `KokkosCapabilities.pdf`.  Cleanup all the copyright [comments in the
   Exercises source files].
1. Christian: [Created GitHub issue #156 on kokkos/kokkos-tutorials summarizing
   the action items we just discussed]:
   <https://github.com/kokkos/kokkos-tutorials/issues/156>
1. Christian: GitHub kokkos/Teams/docs-devs has write access to
   Kokkos/Tutorials.  Other people can open a PR but don't have write access,
   so should be good enough for control.
1. Luc: Actually we want `kokkos/kokkos-tutorials`.
1. Christian: [Added the repository to the GitHub team].
1. Pariksheet: [Wondering about short / medium / full tutorial versions].
1. Christian: [Showed Makefile and .tex files with `\input{}` macros].  Each
   section is about a 30 minute lecture.  Certain pages are excluded via
   `\iffull` macros.  I still think there may be a use to that but wondering
   whether it might be useful to do ad-hoc depending on what the audience
   wants.  [Screen shared
   <https://kokkos.org/kokkos-core-wiki/tutorials-and-examples/video-lectures.html>]
   - links in the table go to a timeslot in the video lecture.  So we first
   cleanup the repository, then rerecord these as a dry-run without an audience
   with a recorded Zoom call.  Might be good to put back links into the
   documentation itself; "View" documentation could have correct links in the
   video recordings.
1. Luc: Wonder if we should have an audience if we are doing this huge task of
   the lecture series.
1. Christian: Yes, we can do that.  That's the medium term plan to get into
   better shape.
1. Luc: Another thought; for cleaning of the repo.  If we use a tag, we could
   refer to the material in the tag and take our time moving things around.
   Damien mentioned the PR by Patrick.  Damien was saying about having the PDF
   build action.  Doubles workload for us.  If we use a tag we can point to the
   PDFs and make GitHub actions for everything.
1. Christian: For release, makes sense [for the binary PDFs] to be in GitHub
   repo because they never get updated again.
1. Luc: Then why not hardcoded in the site?  Damien says we don't need to have
   a PDF in the repo.  Annoying to pull a bunch of PDFs that take time and
   space if they're never going to change.
1. Christian: Sounds good.  Other thing I want to add is.  For issue
   kokkos-tutorials#151 I disagree and want the concepts exercise.  I want the
   lecture series in good shape; did [the exercise] in [a] PowerPoint
   presentation that doesn't conform to the rest of the [LaTeX] layout.
1. Christian: Traveling next week.  Meet week after next.
1. Pariksheet: I can work on CI stuff.  Can hand-write an `index.html` for the
   different short/medium/full PDFs.
1. Luc: Can edit the
   <https://github.com/kokkos/kokkos-core-wiki/tree/main/docs/> for the link to
   the tutorials.  Other one is <https://github.com/kokkos/kokkos.github.io>
1. Christian: So there is a question for kokkos.github.io.
1. Luc: Could make it part of kokkos-tutorials but don't have to make it more
   complex either.  There is an edit button on top of the documentation pages.
1. Christian: We can live with this and go from there.  I would probably have a
   top-level directory in kokkos/kokkos-core-wiki for binary PDFs and
   presentations.  Or would you want them in the docs source.
1. Luc: For kokkos-kernels documentation where do we upload our pages?
1. Christian: It isn't kokkos/kokkos.github.io?
1. Luc: We don't store the build version of it.
1. Christian: That works.  We're kind of out of time.  I would go with lighter
   review requirements than Core, because nothing downstream breaks if we screw
   something up.  Yes, I want approval and if we get approval, just merge it.
1. Luc: What do you want me to do?
1. Christian: I'll start with the copyright item because I have scripts for
    that.  I'll create the legacy-state tag.  I'll remove the old files.

## Tasks for next meeting

- Work on issue 156 <https://github.com/kokkos/kokkos-tutorials/issues/156>

## Next meeting

2025-05-19.

## Attendees

- Christian Trott
- Luc Berger-Vergiat
- Pariksheet Nanda
