# Education & Training working group meeting (2026-04-28)

## Minutes (Paul)

Damien wants to move the meeting notes to the `development` repo.

The meeting has a weekly pace for now, that will be changed to bi-weekly when there are more long-term tasks to do.

Move release briefing out of the tutorials repo.
Luc suggests to move them to the `development` repo.
Everybody agrees.

Luc proposes to update the website with the schedule of the WG.

Paul proposes to take care of the quick actions in the agenda: creating a release of the current files.
Patrick indicates he can take care of making the release.
Damien questions why there should be releases, and prefers to have have GitHub pages for the latest version, accessible from the Kokkos website.
He wants this page to be automatically updated from CI actions when a PR is merged (so as to always give the latest version of the tutorial).
The PDF files could be tracked by git in the GitHub pages special branch, or as artifact (Luc).

The discussion continues about what version number to use.
Majors would be too slow-paced (one version every three years), minors would be too fast-paced (one version every four months).
Some people may want to create a version per event (i.e. per training that is given with the tutorials).
What the "first release" version should be (please refer to the agenda)?
What about the "second release" (please refer to the agenda)?
Patrick suggests 4.7, Damien thinks this is not too important, and proposes to just use a hash for now, and to create versions later when things are more solid.

Damien insists that the WG should focus on how to publish the dev (latest) version of the tutorials.
Luc advices to follow the example of Kokkos-Kernels, that uses GitHub pages for its documentation.

Patrick will take care of moving the release briefing (in 2 weeks).

### Tasks for next meeting

- Update the website for the WG: Luc
- Move the release briefings to the `development` repo: Patrick (will be done in 2 weeks)
- Setup GitHub Pages: Paul

## Minutes (Pariksheet)

1. Paul Zenhner: First kick off meeting.  Prepared agenda for today.  On
   github.com/kokkos/internal-documents that is private and will be moved to
   public kokkos/development.  First meeting was on 2026-03-11.
2. Paul: On schedule, lots of things to do.  Once a week for now?  Many quick
   steps to perform.  For large tasks could move to every other week.
3. Paul: Quick actions:
   1. Paul: Move PDFs out of repository to release.
      1. Patrick Diehl: I can make a release of current PDFs and LaTeX.  If SC
         tutorial accepted, we could make a release for SC; make it easier to go
         back to old slides.
         1. Damien Lebrun-Grandie: What is your release strategy then?  What
            would you be tagging in the current one?
            1. Paul: Not sure what to put for the first version.
            2. Patrick: Could use year and month like Ubuntu release system.
            3. Damien: Let's step back before inventing a new versioning scheme.
               I understand you want to capture the current state pre-migration.
               Assume you're ready for the next release of Kokkos, e.g. 5.2.
               What would you do for the next release?  Git sources for PDF?
            4. Luc Berger-Vergiat: Like GitHub action to check code compiles, then create
               artifacts.
            5. Paul: That's the automation, but can do manual for now.
            6. Damien: I'm the one who did the migration 1.5 years ago from
               private to Kokkos tutorials.  I setup a build that checks it
               compiles and did not manage (I tried) to merge into the main
               branch (whatever it's called).  Checked PDF compile to upload to
               gh-pages to have a URL for documentation that always has both the
               develop latest version that we would later introduce versioning.
               So always have latest of 5.x.y.
            7. Paul: Not contradictory, or is it?
            8. Damien: Doing manually and pushing somewhere?  We can do, but
               would need a release artifact.  Would you want to have develop?
               Don't have release yet, so I though develop was important and not
               yet solved.  May need only another hour to figure out; once built
               upload to gh-pages branch and serve kokkos.org/kokkos-tutorials
               and have development.
            9. Paul: Not opposed to this.
            10. Damien: Use own version for tagging or use Kokkos?
            11. Paul: Would prefer Kokkos.
            12. Damien: In that case you have 2.5 months to cleanup and decide
                what to upload then worry about tagging.  Because 5.2 in July.
                Right now working on 5.1; all steps not clear or how fast you
                would proceed.
            13. Paul: I don't think it should take too long.
            14. Luc: First release of current PDFs is not a big hassle.
                [Then] updating material over time of what Kokkos is doing.  I
                think a release for each Kokkos is too much work; we don't
                update too much stuff between 5.1 and 5.2 and may not warrant
                updating the tutorial.
            15. Paul: Idea for not necessarily latest versions and have develop
                versions for pull request.  Where would we store files for
                develop versions?
            16. Damien: Store in gh-pages.  In principle you can have any branch
                named whatever you want.  gh-pages is automatically served.  I
                find it somewhat natural.  Can be an arbitrary URL and have
                scripts to transform the URL, but I like doing it through the
                gh-pages branch, like how we deploy the documentation or
                website.
            17. Paul: Much simpler of having PDF files for the tutorials.  Not a
                fan of PDFs files in Git.
            18. Damien: Could force push to the branch.
            19. Luc: Could have artifacts / tarballs without PDFs.
            20. Damien: You're welcome to use that.  I'm suggesting something
                close to the workflow we have and don't want to suggest it too
                strongly.
            21. Paul: Need to see how long artifacts last for more than a couple
                of days.  Right now we have no versions; just develop.  Need to
                put a version name on the two old versions.  Then update content
                with the starting point.  Quick action that doesn't involve
                modifying the file.
            22. Patrick: Use last Kokkos 4.x as a stage.  Then 5, and work
                until 6.  Make release of PDFs and LaTeX files.
            23. Damien: For 7, have already started updating and putting things.
                Welcome to test what Paul was suggesting of tutorial code
                working against 7; I don't know the state of it and whether it
                would work or not.  You have hashes and can tie after the fact.
                Don't need action; could use commit hash that you want to call
                something.  I can give [the commit hash] to you with the
                reservation that I can change it or move it.  Whatever the
                latest state is you need a name: I can give you that hash.
                Doesn't matter too much: more important to work on cleanup and
                where to serve things.  For major release only would be one
                release every 3 years.
            24. Paul: That [number of releases] may be too few.
            25. Patrick: Need tag of current release from 2022 and making a tag
                would be sufficient.
            26. Paul: Can we associate files with the tag?
            27. Damien: [Yes, ] you're not rewriting history so you can hand out
                URLs to any existing file.
            28. Paul: So idea is to make a tag with the current PDF files in
                place, then remove PDF files, compile the current LaTeX file and
                make a tag of this commit.  Create gh-page with references
                to these files.
            29. Damien: No, the idea with gh-pages was to run an action with
                every PR and merge to make sure it builds.  [Instead] on merging
                to main, the build then has a deploy state.  The deploy state
                would push relevant artifacts.  Typically would use gh-pages
                with mapping of how things map to kokkos.org and get URLs for
                free; we don't write code on the website.
            30. Paul: So we don't create the content of the page.
            31. Damien: What alternative do you have in mind?  You're focused on
                releases.  Assume we tag today whatever we call it then did some
                great thing in 2 weeks, what will you do?  After the fact make
                up a new release scheme and graveyard of releases we don't know
                what to call?  I was of the opinion that we only care about the
                latest release.  I care about where to put artifacts for the
                latest and worry about saving states once we get to a stable,
                clean state that produces a PDF, then save those forever.
            32. Paul: I didn't have the same strategy in mind.
            33. Luc: One difference for old Kokkos Core and Kernel releases was
                strong requirements from Sandia, Oakridge, etc. of not saying
                everything is experimental, must get stuff done.  Timelines not
                regular.  But tutorials not under the same pressure; can do
                right from the beginning instead of respective requirement from
                sponsors.  Was a huge pain to make the releases rigorous.  But
                would rather start well than ad-hoc.  Damien is not saying no,
                just that we will have oversight eventually.
            34. Patrick: Publishing development on the Kokkos page is a good
                thing and we can discuss releases later.  At least we have a tag
                of the current state; that's important for me.
            35. Damien: So you don't want to use a hash?
            36. Patrick: Just a tag of the current state would not be too
                painful.  Can delete the tag if we don't need it anymore.  Can
                rename tags.
            37. Paul: If I get Damien's point is to first focus on gh-pages.
                How to publish the latest version of the tutorials.  Premature
                to think about versioning tutorials.
            38. Damien: Most useful thing we will have is the latest state.  We
                will potentially have people suggesting the tag be the name of
                the training you gave.  Like 2026-isc-whatever or
                2025-cea-hackathon that will speak to someone at the training.
                To me, secondary to latest stage.
            39. Luc: We won't be ready to tag trainings from today.  Christian
                updated a few things as we were training.  Not to discourage the
                effort, but invigorate it from starting from so far.  Will have
                to do a lot of work first and have people pitch in between now
                and next week.
            40. Damien: Christian can suggest about tagging trainings.  Patch
                release cadence is way too high.  Major and minor: Major 3
                years, minor 4 months.  I don't think it's appropriate to do
                that often or necessarily tagging notable events.  May be more
                useful to take training we give then release until we have
                modules for specific versions that we don't have in our training
                now.
   2. Paul: Then compile LaTeX files with up-to-date files from the repo; modify
      README to say check latest version of the repo.
      1. Luc: Release files should have a tag to get back to the source.
   3. Paul: Jacob was worried about creating too many repositories.
      1. Patrick: can be an issue of release PDFs.  Release briefing has slides
         and PDF which not sure is a good thing.
         1. Paul: Would like to have release briefing somewhere else.
         2. Luc: Would like kokkos/development to have public documents other
            than meeting notes like these things.
         3. Luc: Release briefings are self-contained with all C++ code in the
            LaTeX file.
         4. Patrick: Using cminted LaTeX package to load line numbers of
            functional files.
         5. Paul: Can use comments of what to load.
   4. Luc: In the website change meetings from TBD in education and working
      groups.
4. Paul: Next week can think about how to publish latest version of the
   tutorials.  Someone knowledgable about gh-pages.  Maybe Luc?
5. Luc: Yes, I think we should focus on gh-pages.  Let's do something and focus
   on getting it done instead of focusing on releases.  See example of building
   documentation out of kokkos-kernels.  Hopefully easy to do from
   kokkos-kernels.
6. Paul: For next week update the website and look into updating gh-pages.
   1. Damien: Need to update kokkos.org if you move the PDFs.
   2. Patrick: I can try to do this and update the kokkos website.
7. Patrick: Where should we put absences?  Add to notes?  I'll be traveling next
   week.

## Attendees

- Paul Zehner
- Pariksheet Nanda
- Damien Lebrung-Grandie
- Luc Berger-Vergiat
- Patrick Diehl
