# Education & Training working group meeting (2026-05-19)

## Minutes

1. Luc: Damien wanted persistent link instead of temporary.
1. Christian: [Opened <https://kokkos.org/community/release-briefings/> but
   links to old tutorial PDF files goes to temporary links].
   <https://kokkos.org/development/release-briefings/> could be a good place.
1. Luc: Moving out of kokkos-tutorials to development.  Going to put source of
   release briefing.  Then need to serve the compiled version of the release
   briefing.  You can put me in [issue 156][issue-156] for moving from
   source to development.
1. Christian: [Edited [issue 156][issue-156]]
1. Pariksheet: [Explained CI work in his fork of
   <https://github.com/omsai/kokkos-tutorials>].
1. Christian: Okay to have simple FTP upload to GitHub pages instead of Hugo.
   Kokkos-kernels deploys files somewhere.
1. Luc: You build kokkos-kernels in CI to check [that] it looks correct before
   approving a PR.  Then in the deploy stage [it uploads].
1. Christian: Fine to create a PR with the deploy page.  Create PR only for
   tutorials.  For now, no HTML; only PDFs and switch links to PDFs.  Links
   should be stable; can later consider go to a special triggered action for a
   specific tutorial [at a workshop] for links to those PDFs.  Can do later;
   don't have to proactively solve that problem.
1. Pariksheet: I can finish that this week.
1. Christian: Sounds good; that would get us through our initial list of TODOs.
   I'm updating the licenses.  Will try to get that issued this week.
1. Christian: After we have that done, I would like to concentrate on the
   actual PDFs and check for bugs and issues.  Farm out some work of couple of
   pages where information is outdated or not quite correct and how we would
   like to update that.  Updating our existing material to get rid of outdated
   would be a good use of our time initially.  Then [we] can organize an online
   series and redo recordings.  [Showed
   <https://kokkos.org/kokkos-core-wiki/tutorials-and-examples/video-lectures.html>]
   sub-links to timestamps of YouTube videos.  Then when we have up-to-date
   [and] can think about other stuff.  We can create short videos for
   individual classes for 2 minute videos to cross-link in the documentation.
1. Patrick: TikTok 1 minute introduction to Views!
1. Luc: A bit worried about compile time in a 1 minute video.
1. Pariksheet: When updating the tutorial materials, should we explain how to
   do things in older versions of Kokkos and what range of Kokkos versions a
   way of doing things applies to in case the user is pinned to using a
   specific version?
1. Christian: I don't care too much about slide compatibility for both older
   versions and [the] current version.  Haven't run into tons of problems where
   things are outdated.  If there are new features like graph stuff only
   available in 5.x - wouldn't be too worried about that.  When we do the
   recordings I would make a tagged version of the PDFs of what we used in the
   recordings for 2026 or 2027 for version that is roughly 5.x series of
   things.  Not super productive to make these versioned.  Amount of work to do
   that divided by the likelihood of keeping up to date is a relatively large
   number for relatively little benefit.
1. Patrick: Should make it work for latest Kokkos version.
1. Christian: For Kokkos 6 would want to check nothing breaks.
1. Luc: If we are optimistic, we could trigger a rebuild when we make a
   release, but not to update to material, just to check it does not break.
1. Patrick: So check examples compile with the latest version.
1. Luc: Yes, no need to be in sync with develop, just the latest [stable]
   release.
1. Patrick: Most people using Kokkos would compile the latest release.
1. Christian: Yeah, that's fine.  Lets finish moving the PDFs and finish the
   [GitHub] Actions.  Then next week after we're done with that we can go
   through the material for that stuff to be reasonably up to date.
1. Patrick: SIMD is completely out of date.
1. Christian: Yes.  Somethings didactic wise need to be redone.  When we go
   through we will update the approach itself.  In early comparisons there are
   a bunch of comparisons with OpenMP and CUDA where those were more known and
   Kokkos [was] fairly unknown.  But [I] don't know how many new users are in a
   world where Kokkos is fairly unknown.
1. Patrick: At LANL people know OpenMP and were able to make a connection.
1. Christian: [OpenMP is] useful as a comparison point as, arguably, [the] only
   other reasonably well-supported alternative.
1. Patrick: A question I got is for [is having code of] equivalent Python:
   CuPy, NumPy, etc.
1. Christian: Reasonable, but issue is python does not have a parallel
   programming model.  From [a] datastructure POV of subviews, we often
   introduce that with Python comparisons so that's fine.  Let's get there when
   we get there.  We can stop [the meeting] here.
1. Luc: Will move release briefings and create PR.
1. Christian: I'll create PR to update the license.
1. Pariksheet: I'll do the PR for CI.

## Tasks for next meeting

- Finish [issue 156][issue-156]

## Next meeting

2025-05-26.

## Attendees

- Christian Trott
- Luc Berger-Vergiat
- Patrick Diehl
- Pariksheet Nanda

<!-- References -->
[issue-156]: <https://github.com/kokkos/kokkos-tutorials/issues/156>
