# Agenda

* Topic: Nightly jobs CDash posting review
  * Kokkos: https://my.cdash.org/index.php?project=Kokkos
  * Kokkos Kernels: https://my.cdash.org/index.php?project=Kokkos%20Kernels
  * Any updates, progress, or feedback to report?
  * Any new jobs in the works, added coverage needed?

* Topic: CI jobs and resources
  * Reshuffle of ORNL CI: status update
  * Adding more SNL CI jobs: status update

* Topic: Tested configurations and coverage:
  * Curently tested configurations: [CI, nightlies](https://github.com/kokkos/internal-documents/blob/master/ci_working_group/Automated_Testing.md)
    * ACTION ITEM: Please continue adding new CI and nighlty jobs to the doc
  * Coverage and gaps
    * Add more benchmark and examples coverage - update
    * More coverage needed for `Kokkos_ENABLE_LARGE_MEM_TESTS=ON` ?
  * ACTION ITEM: Continue populating useful testing-related info to [skip_testing.md](https://github.com/kokkos/internal-documents/blob/master/ci_working_group/skip_testing.md) , such as
    - Eventually publish to external site for public view, what is a good location? Suggestions: "Developers" section under kokkos.org/Documentation , or [Jenkins special interest groups](https://www.jenkins.io/sigs/) ?
   * Feedback, updates, next steps?

* Topic: Toward standardizing test processes
  * Any updates?

# Notes
- Nightlies
 - CEA nightlies have a runner problem but they are already working on fixing it
 - Frontier nighlies have a compiler problem, Bruno already reported it, Cray is working on it
 - Nersc no proper isolation and timeouts (running on login nodes). Rahul will try to change it to proper jobs.
- CI jobs:
 - Scatter_view_device_type has spurious failures. Nathan will ask barlett, who has some filters for cdash to show if tests fail multiple times in a row. This would take the tracking of these off our mental load.
 - Sandia added a RocM build for our CI. Another for intel 2021 (openmp), saphire rapids, and intel gpu (ponte veccio) is in the works by Nathan. Daniel noted that the arch is unspecified for the gpu build which will result in jit compilation.
 - ORNL updated sycl on nvidia gpus to 2025 and cuda 12.8.
- Testing configurations:
 - We should convert the feedback we got from users to a list of configurations as a starting point for discussion.
 - Paul already tried to convert the cea user feedback to usable configurations sets. Nathan will do it for snl, Jakob for ornl, we will aks Patrick for lanl
 - Nathan will look into how to do a configuration database for the next meeting.
 - We want to increase example and benchmarks building in the CI. The default should be on. -> create an issue to track this.
 - Kokkos_ENABLE_LARGE_MEM_TESTS-ON will need timeout increase as it inceases the runtime. We can enable these in the nighlies when we know the machines have enough resources.

# Attendees
- Nathan
- Daniel
- Bruno
- Rahul
- Paul
- Jakob
