# Agenda

* Topic: CDash server
  * Reminder: https://github.com/kokkos/kokkos/pull/7556
  * Updates?
 
* Topic: Toward standardizing test processes
  * [cmake-presets](https://cmake.org/cmake/help/latest/manual/cmake-presets.7.html#id2)
    * Any experiences, feedback, guidance/best-practices?
    * Trial-run with nightlies (postable to cdash)?
  
* Topic: Configurations that matter to institutions:
  * Current responses collected at [configuration_support_responses.md](https://github.com/kokkos/internal-documents/blob/master/ci_working_group/configuration_support_responses.md)

* Topic: Efficient way(s) to visualize and/or query existing jobs
  * What is important to track and record, how to efficiently query, etc?
    * Backend-OS-Toolchain-Arch-Shared/Static-Rel/Debug-{ConfigOptions-...}

## Notes

CDash server
* Daniel has things working
* Current setup packs all cmake options into a single env variable string
* DA: How do we want things to look? Current setup looks like what we currently do. Is something more CMake-like with scripts worth the extra infrastructure?
* GitHub + cmake-presets : requires storing separate files and different handling from the GA test matrix
* Nightly jobs
  * ACTION_ITEM : test run submitting some nightly jobs to the CDash server
  * Paul will look at submitting CEA nightly jobs to CDash server
  * Rahul will look into submitting NERSC nightly jobs as well
  * Bruno will look into submitting ORNL nightly jobs
  * Q: CDash build name convention? For now, enough info to distinguish the build, as more jobs are added we can establish a convention
  * Submit to current server in CTestRun.cmake
    * Q: Is this universal, i.e. CI and nightly job submissions?
      1. Need to drop the `GITHUB_PR_ID` for nightlies
      2. Specify `Nightly` track (instead of `Experimental`)

Configurations
* Continue to add information and survey responses as they come in

Lower the bar to reproduce failures
* cmake-presets?
* How to efficiently track what we are testing
  * Tentative table-like convention:
  * `Hardware : OS : Toolchain/Compiler : Backend : Backend-specific-options : Kokkos-options : CMake-options`
  * Luc: NGA may have added this info as part of `print_configuration` - maybe introduce option to dump to e.g. json file? Will help automatically generate up-to-date artifacts
  * ACTION_ITEM : NE will look at what NGA added, report in next meeting

## Attendees

* Damien Lebrun-Grandie
* Bruno Turcksin
* Daniel Arndt
* Jakob Bludau
* Nathan Ellingwood
* Paul Zehner
* Rahul Gayatri
* Luc Berger-Vergiat
