# Agenda

* Topic: Nightly jobs CDash posting review
  * Kokkos: https://my.cdash.org/index.php?project=Kokkos
    * Configure or Build failures: [cdash query](https://my.cdash.org/index.php?project=Kokkos&filtercount=2&showfilters=1&filtercombine=and&field1=buildtype&compare1=63&value1=Nightly&field2=block&field2count=2&field2field1=builderrors&field2compare1=43&field2value1=0&field2field2=configureerrors&field2compare2=43&field2value2=0)
    * Test failures: [cdash query](https://my.cdash.org/queryTests.php?project=Kokkos&filtercount=2&showfilters=1&filtercombine=and&field1=groupname&compare1=63&value1=Nightly&field2=status&compare2=63&value2=Failed)
  * Kokkos Kernels: https://my.cdash.org/index.php?project=Kokkos%20Kernels
    * Configure of Build failures: [cdash query](https://my.cdash.org/index.php?project=Kokkos%20Kernels&filtercount=2&showfilters=1&filtercombine=or&field1=configureerrors&compare1=43&value1=0&field2=builderrors&compare2=43&value2=0)
    * Test failures: [cdash query](https://my.cdash.org/queryTests.php?project=Kokkos%20Kernels&filtercount=1&showfilters=1&field1=status&compare1=63&value1=Failed)
  * Any updates, progress, or feedback to report?

----

* Topic: CI jobs and resources
  * SNL CI: Transfer HPX job to SNL. 
    * Pre-testing the docker container and existing configuration resulted in unit test failure ([summary on slack ci wg](https://kokkosteam.slack.com/archives/C07JRFJ1XCN/p1744238622244989?thread_ts=1744134528.603409&cid=C07JRFJ1XCN)).
  * ORNL CI: Candidate job to transfer to SNL CI
  * CI Maintainers and POCs List: [Draft here](https://github.com/kokkos/internal-documents/blob/master/ci_working_group/ci_maintainers_pocs.md)

----

* Topic: Release process and Trilinos integration testing
  * Review updated release process discussed with Trilinos
    * Decouple merge-ready state of Trilinos PR (containing snapshots of release) from finalizing Kokkos {Core,Kernels} releases
    * More...

----

* Topic: Tested configurations and coverage:
  * Curently tested configurations: [CI, nightlies](https://github.com/kokkos/internal-documents/blob/master/ci_working_group/Automated_Testing.md)
    * REMINDER: Please continue adding new CI and nighlty jobs to the doc
  * CI Tracking and Query:
    * Python scripts and demo Jupyter notebook added to [ci_working_group](https://github.com/kokkos/internal-documents/tree/master/ci_working_group) as starting point for database queries (sqlite3-based) or data analysis manipulation with query-like requests (pandas-based)
  * Institution testing configuration requests: tracked in [combinatoric_configuration_table](https://github.com/kokkos/internal-documents/blob/master/ci_working_group/combinatoric_configuration_table.md)
    * Update: The info from [configuration_support_responses](https://github.com/kokkos/internal-documents/blob/master/ci_working_group/configuration_support_responses.md) was added to the table, ready for coverage review
  * 5.0 preparation
    * Update/add CI jobs using minimum version compilers and c++20?
    * Increase c++20 testing overall - convert existing tests that use supported compilers?
  * Coverage and gaps
    * Any new jobs in the works, added coverage needed?

----

* Topic: Toward standardizing test processes
  * No particular item - any updates or topics of interest?

----

# Notes
* NERSC nightly: The PR (https://github.com/kokkos/kokkos/pull/7799) looks fine it can be merged once the compiler warning option is enabled. Once it is merged, Rahul will change NERSC nightly to use the configuration filed checked in.
* On slack, Daniel pointed out that "ANL-CI isn’t running for Kokkos Kernels but only for Kokkos". However, we do see a build on ALCF. This needs clarification.
* Bruno needs to ping Cray/OLCF for an update on the Cray compiler issue.
* MI300A tests are once again timing out. It seems that there is an issue with atomics when using references. Instead of using HIP's atomics, we use the default implementation. Conrad will open an issue.
* Sandia is in charge of moving the HPX testing from Github workflow to their own testers. It seems that Nathan is working on this because he posted a Dockerfile on slack. We need to make sure that someone (Nathan or other) is working on this and we want the Dockerfile to be checked in for everyone to see. Sandia will need to make sure that the Dockerfile is kept synchronized.
* Bruno needs to audit our current testing for HIP and propose to move some builds to Sandia
* All POC should update https://github.com/kokkos/internal-documents/blob/master/ci_working_group/ci_maintainers_pocs.md Don't forget to add things like how to skip tests, retrigger the tests, where are the logs, how to find the machine, permissions, etc.
* Nathan wrote a Python script to extract data from database. We will discuss it more next meeting to understand how it works and how to use it. We also need to talk about how we will keep the database up to date. Jakob propose to extract data from the CMakeCache.txt that is created during the configuration phase to update the database. He will look into it.
* Kokkos 5.0 will require C++20. We need to make sure that we have enough configuration using C++20 coverage. We also need to make sure that we test C++20 with older compilers. This will guide us in our future requirements.
* Remember our goal to make it easier to reproduce a configuration so that anyone can easily reproduce an error. Stay close to Docker support, use CMake presets, avoid custom solution as much as possible.

# Attendees
- Bruno Turcksin
- Damien Lebrun-Grandie
- Jakob Bludeau
- Conrad Clevenger
- Rahul Gayatri

